below is the rush transcript of george stephanopoulos’ interview with 'house of cards' star kevin spacey for “this week , ” conducted on sunday , feb. 16 , 2014.
stephanopoulos : and , here he is live. kevin spacey playing frank underwood , thanks for coming in this morning.
spacey : thank you for having me.
stephanopoulos : so is he right there , is washington more exciting than hollywood ?
spacey : look , for me it's like performance art , you know , i sometimes watch it actually we can get done shooting on a day and i'll come home and turn on the news and i'll think , you know , our storylines are not that crazy. they're really not.
stephanopoulos : with some exceptions. again , i'm not going to give too much away from the second season. but it does seem like even president obama has a little bit of frank underwood - - envy , the ruthlessly efficient frank underwood.
spacey : i can imagine why he would. i've thought actually over the last year it must be really interesting for not just an american public , but people around the world to view a very effective congress that gets things done. and so i can imagine he must feel , gosh , i wish we could move that quickly.
stephanopoulos : how do you put the two together ? i mean , clearly this show is striking a cord out there in the country at a time when the country hates washington more than ever ?
spacey : well , i've heard from lots of people , you know , that some people feel that 99 percent of the show is accurate and that the 1 percent that isn't is that you could never get an education bill passed that fast.
( laughter )
stephanopoulos : forget about every other crime you see over the course of the show.
and you know you've got all these members of congress. i want to show a group of them. from nowthisnews.com who seem to have a little frank underwood envy too.
( begin videotape )
rep. kevin mccarthy : i hope the bill is going to come up this wednesday.
rep. kevin mccarthy : i'd never make such a big decisions so long after sunset and so far from dawn.
rep. kevin mccarthy : it's still going to come up.
rep. jim clyburn : i have no patience for useless things.
( end videotape )
stephanopoulos : ( inaudible ) ...
spacey : mccarthy , who...
stephanopoulos : he's the republican...
spacey : he was the house republican whip who was really a very generous to me. i spent - - i sort of shadowed him in the capitol a little bit to understand and learn what it's actually like to be the majority whip. but actually said recently that , you know , if i could kill just one member of congress , i would never have to worry about another vote.
stephanopoulos : i think that's pretty true. the example that would set.
so what did you pick up from following him around ?
spacey : look , it's particularly interesting for him , because there are so many new members of congress who were sort of brought in , in the tea party and we're going to fight against washington and we're not going to do it the usual way , that it's very difficult to harangue 218 congressman to vote a particular way you want them to vote. so i don't envy him the position. it's not easy.
but it was very for me fascinating to go to a couple of whip meetings and actually see what the agenda is , what they're going to put out there , how they do it. and so for me it was very helpful to understand what it's actually like to try to whip.
stephanopoulos : and the show does get all those little details of the setting , and a lot of the conversation exactly right.
but i wonder what you make of - - you know , some people , some critics of the show look at it and say , as you point out a lot of people think this is the way it must be. but one marcia angell , a doctor , says , " blanket cynicism , " talking about the show , " gives the illusion of understanding , not really understanding what's going on. "
spacey : well , i think that , you know , we've also heard a lot of comparisons to , well , we're antithesis of what the west wing was. west wing was a very , you know , a...
stephanopoulos : a different kind of fantasy.
spacey : yeah , a different kind of fantasy. and that , you know , i think that what i think is very interesting is , is even if you look now at the way that some real politicians are being reexamined , you know , lyndon johnson is a character that my character in house of cards admires. you know , during his lifetime , and certainly during his presidency he took an enormous amount of criticism , certainly for his policies in vietnam. but we also have to look at the fact that he passed three civil rights bills in a very short presidency. and yes he was called ruthless and machiavellian , an sob and a lot of things during the course of his life , but people are sort of reexamining...
stephanopoulos : ...that's true.
spacey : ...people who are willing to do whatever they have to do.
stephanopoulos : and if he had the kind of coverage doing those - - going through those ruthless tactics that he would get today going through them , he might not be able to get what he got done.
spacey : or even abraham lincoln. you know , you look at the film lincoln , which showed him as a very effective politician willing to give positions to various people in order to get votes for something he thought was more important. and today that would probably be a scandal.
stephanopoulos : kevin spacey , thank you very much. house of cards is terrific.
you can see every episode on netflix right now. and we'll be right back.