we the motherfuckin best nigga
remix motherfucker !
ace hood !
this the remix !
i come looking for you with haitians
i stay smoking on good jamaican
i fuck bitches from different races
you get money they started hating
( turn up ! )
i woke up in a new bugatti ( remix ! )
i woke up in a new bugatti ( remix ! )
i woke up in a new bugatti ( remix ! )
i woke up in a new bugatti ( remix ! )
i woke up in a new bugatti ( remix ! )
i woke up in a new bugatti
tats all over my body
gettin' real money , niggas still hatin' on me
man y'all need a new hobby
or they won't talk to me , what they gon' say ?
i ball , you a waterboy , bobby boucher
on top , toupée , y'all niggas fruitcakes
i don't really play games but i keep 2 k's
damn , mr. hood why you do 'em like that ?
pull up in the drop with the ceiling top back
couple weeks old , " bugatti " done went gold
you ain't even know , i deserve that plaque
we the best , runnin' every summer in fact
july 16th i'm bringin' the real back
broward ! pussy
i woke up in a new bugatti
hold up , double m back in this bitch
walk in the club with a mac on my hip
diamonds look like niggas snappin a flick
ballin' i blow fifty racks in the vip
i back in the whip , maybach with your bitch
a new mussolini in back of the six
i'm shittin' on rappers , these rappers is sick
cause my homies got whips that these rappers ain't get
cause we crackin' them bricks and i package the zip
and i'm switchin' my flow , i spit crack in this bitch
and i been hit your ho , now she back on my dick
but i get to the dough and get back at your bitch
like hollup , i woke up in coon new ferrari
with all my motherfuckin' jewelry on me
new aston martin plus a rolls royce
and a new ferrari , that's a new bugatti
and it's paid for nigga
got racks , stack 'em up like lego nigga
i'm a motherfuckin' g , i don't play with no nigga
multi - millionaire self - made ho nigga
h - u - s - t - l - e gang
for that , in god we trust , we bang
i'm the new john gotti in a new bugatti
i got a few young hotties wanna get shit poppin'
right , put it in the light
nigga got ice but it don't look right
if a nigga buy a brick and it don't cook right
i'll whip that shit for a rack , sit tight
i got a bag full of tools and some yay to move
and all i want is money , leave the fame to you
i graduated out of gladiator school
so all i know is go like i'm trained to do
right now , turn my mazy pedal to the metal i'm ashin' out
i let the top down in my phantom drop
blowin' , i'm high as an astronaut
when you see me , i'm cashin' out
walked into mercedes bought half the lot
you keep carrying on , you getting carried out
cause i don’t take ass whoopins , just pass ‘em out
is this worth getting blasted about ?
no forreal , is it worth getting blasted about ?
money conversation
get so high , i be scrapin'
got my eyes like a asian
in my ride , like i'm racin'
in the sky , like a plane
it's gang or die
ain't no lames up in my circle
ain't no ho shit in my eyes
throwin' money in the air
poppin' bands and let it fly
where i'm from , you come up short
pull that thing and let it fly
you know me , blow so much dank , think i'm marley
got so much ink on my body
brought so much drink to the party
i fell asleep and woke up in a new bugatti
fresh , whips
candy on that money dip
five hundred , i'm hood rich
put in work , did a hundred flips
been about them mansions
stunna island , we packin'
rich gang , we uptown
nigga hardbody and mackin'
tool on that back , nigga
money and that power
mansion on that beach , nigga
blood red bugatti
versace on my bitch , nigga
blow a mil' like it's a dollar
stunt
woke up with the crown nigga
serving bobby brown nigga
started from the bottom now it's carter , nino brown nigga
take my spot nigga never will
now i know how 'melo feel
we both shooters from new york
but i shown nigga how the metal feel
fidel castro with them cuban links
with mark cuban where them cubans link
excuse my french nigga , no france
hottest new niggas in ten years
coke boy deal like ten m's
dj khaled up in there
flow hot as the mojave , gimme that sloppy shit
all on my car stick , give her some hundreds she did
like this , i'mma say this
fuck it , i'll say it
if you got good pussy you should always have your rent paid
choke on some bands if i'm not mistaken
add up my outfit , fashion statement
this the school of hard knocks , graduation
i'm sick of y'all niggas all talkin' crazy
hottest nigga spittin' and they can't debate it
i didn't really know 2pac or big
but know the beast within'll reincarnate 'em
fuck underrated , i'm constipated
i'm shittin' on 'em , fuck toilet paper
you're now tuned into the fuckin' greatest
ace hood , congratulations
say name one nigga that's rockin' with him
flow like a hundred round choppa nigga
made a way out of the jungle
and now they in trouble , i used to be humble as shit
recently flooded my neck and my wrist
tell all them critics to suck on the dick
nigga