heartbreak drowned sorrows in a large steak
why you always all on my back ?
why you gotta do me like that ?
why you gotta act like a bitch when i'm with you ?
baby girl i'm blue
because you treat me like shit
i paid for the bed and never even slept in it
i paid for that crib i never stepped foot in
and now somebody else is eating all the pudding
things change , now my dashboard wooden
all black benz , like a young doc gooden
dark shades , cause i'm stone crazy
girl , we grown , stop playing on my phone , baby
all your childish attempts to make me angry fall short
which only fuels the rage you have , because you have nothing
understandable , i'm shining brilliant with five brazilians
there were times i used to hide my feelings
now i'm butt naked in the lamborghini
and motherfuckers can't see me
wait 'til this chick see me on tv , i make the shit look easy
who would've thought i hit you right back ?
why you always all on my back ?
why you gotta do me like that ?
why you gotta act like a bitch when i'm with you ?
baby girl i'm blue
so many women wanna call me baby
and you wonder why the fuck that i ain't call you lately
some would say that i'm the symbol for sex and uh
others would hate , but i don't give 'em no breath
go on a date , i'm at the crib with the chef and uh , that's me
and you could order whatever
the specialty is white snake and underwear sauce
you could probably catch me somewhere where the sun is next
and i understand that's only cause i'm popular
i'm getting topped off in the front row of the opera
as bocelli sings the celly rings
i gotta go , you'll never know how good it feels to lay in bed with king
i'm not exactly flawless , but i'm gorgeous , just like a horse is
i know the thought of me succeeding makes a lot of people nauseous
still i'm on the back of the boat taking pictures with the swordfish
why you always all on my back ?
why you gotta do me like that ?
why you gotta act like a bitch when i'm with you ?
baby girl i'm blue
i hope you get a paper cut on your tongue
from a razor in a paper cup
i hope every soda you drink already shaken up
i hope your dreams dry like raisins in the baking sun
i hope your titties all saggy in your early 20's
i hope there's always snow in your driveway
i hope you never get off fridays
and you work at a friday's that's always busy on fridays
i hope you win the lottery and lose your ticket
i hope it's ben and socrates poop all up in your kitchen
i hope the zipper on your jacket get stuck
and your headphones short , and your charger don't work
and you spill shit on your shirt
i hope your tears don't hurt , and i can smile in your face
cut my losses , how delilah changed my locks to a fade
i hope you happy , i hope you happy
i hope you ruined this shit for a reason , i hope you happy !
why you always all on my back ?
why you gotta do me like that ?
why you gotta act like a bitch when i'm with you ?
baby girl i'm blue
la la la la