pretty again , i'll do anything to make her feel pretty again
pretty again , i'll do anything to make her feel pretty again
pretty again , i'll do anything to make her feel pretty again
pretty again , i'll do anything to make her feel pretty again
she said ..
i'll do anything to make myself feel pretty again
cause you scarred me and made me forget i was pretty within
my friends told me i should of left yo ass that 1st time you cheated , yo i swear i should of listened , cause look you did it again
what is it ? is it cause i ain't fit like these other bitches ?
sorry i ain't perfect and thick like these other bitches
but i did everything for you that the others didn't
i was even there when yo family was acting different
and i still got cheated on... i guess i wasn't pretty enough
i bet she had bigger tits and a brazilian butt
i was already insecure now i just feel shitty as fuck
got me looking in the mirror trynna analyse my figure
telling myself i'll never be good enough for no man
so ion love no man
you know why ion trust no man ? cause even my father left my life , i couldn't trust my old mans
damn , but you ? i cared for you , i was always there for you
when life was looking bold i was always here for you
shed a couple tears for you , made a couple prayers for you
hoping you would change 1 day
but nah you never did and you never will
you just love getting around like a ferris wheel
destroying my self esteem and you ain't care how i feel
how was you finding these bitches anyway ? whats the big deal ?
i completely changed from that shit
my heart cold now , you the one to blame for that shit
my next relationship i promise i'll be trained for that shit
cause now i'm thinking like a nigga so i don't get played like a bitch. "
( but we can fix this baby ) nah nigga it's too late for that shit
i lost myself , i been smoking more and drinking again
partying every night and randomly sleeping with men
cause i just wanna fucking feel pretty again !
pretty again , i'll do anything to make her feel pretty again
pretty again , i'll do anything to make her feel pretty again
pretty again , i'll do anything to make her feel pretty again
pretty again , i'll do anything to make her feel pretty again