where were you when the world stopped turning on that september day ?
were you in the yard with your wife and children
or working on some stage in l.a. ?
did you stand there in shock at the sight of that black smoke
rising against that blue sky ?
did you shout out in anger in fear for your neighbor
or did you just sit down and cry ?
did you weep for the children who lost their dear loved ones
and pray for the ones who don't know ?
did you rejoice for the people who walked from the rubble
and sob for the ones left below ?
did you burst out with pride for the red , white and blue
and the heroes who died just doing what they do ?
did you look up to heaven for some kind of answer
and look at yourself and what really matters ?
i'm just a singer of simple songs
i'm not a real political man
i watch cnn but i'm not sure i can tell
you the difference in iraq and iran
but i know jesus and i talk to god
and i remember this from when i was young
faith , hope and love are some good things he gave us
and the greatest is love
where were you when the world stopped turning on that september day ?
were you teaching a class full of innocent children
or driving down some cold interstate ?
did you feel guilty because you're a survivor
in a crowded room did you feel alone ?
did you call up your mother and tell her you loved her ?
did you dust off that bible at home ?
did you open your eyes , hope it never happened
close your eyes and not go to sleep ?
did you notice the sunset the first time in ages
or speak to some stranger on the street ?
did you lay down at night and think of tomorrow
or go out and buy you a gun ?
did you turn off that violent old movie you're watching
and turn on " i love lucy " reruns ?
did you go to a church and hold hands with some strangers
did you stand in line and give your own blood ?
did you just stay home and cling tight to your family
thank god you had somebody to love ?
i'm just a singer of simple songs
i'm not a real political man
i watch cnn but i'm not sure i can tell
you the difference in iraq and iran
but i know jesus and i talk to god
and i remember this from when i was young
faith , hope and love are some good things he gave us
and the greatest is love
where were you when the world stopped turning on that september day ?