as the rap industry continues to become more and more successful , new generations step up to the plate to take the title as the “leaders of the new school.” in the past , it was names such as nas , jay - z , eminem , snoop dogg , etc. now , new faces have become the icons of the rap industry. so who are the leaders of this generation ? the top three most influential and iconic rappers in the game today are kendrick lamar , j. cole and asap rocky. even if you don’t necessarily agree with their musical style or the topics they choose to rap about , these artists have definitely earned the title of “leaders of the new school.”
some people swear by the idea that kendrick lamar truly is the reincarnation of 2pac. kendrick has a lyrical arsenal that has been firing rapidly in the past couple of years. his mixtapes such as “c4 , ” “overly dedicated” and “section.80” have helped him rise to the top as an emerging artist ready to blow up in the industry. his crew , called black hippy , has even been compared to some of the greatest groups of all time such as nwa. black hippy is a conglomeration of some of the most talented artists in the game which include : ab - soul , jay rock and schoolboy q. kendrick released one of the most highly - anticipated albums of the last decade titled “good kid in a mad city , ” and it lived up to its extreme hype. what’s special about kendrick is that he is able to paint a picture in your mind and tell you a story that keeps you on the edge of your seat. when kendrick is asked to get on a feature he always puts out a verse that has the ability to make a song become a hit. at the bet awards , he’s received nominations for best male hip hop artist , best new artist , best collaboration , and in 2012 he won lyricist of the year. not too bad for someone who rose to fame in such a small amount of time. kendrick is considered a phenomenon even to some of the greatest rappers of all time such as dr. dre and jay - z. he has had the opportunity to work with dr. dre , who has taken kendrick under his wing to help him become one of the all - time greats himself. this year , kendrick will also be releasing a collaboration album with j. cole , which has the potential to be on the same level as “watch the throne.” overall , kendrick lamar is a poet who has the ability to take your mind on a ride as he explains his story , and with all of his hype he surely lives up to it all. kendrick definitely is a leader of the new school
the next artist who has risen to the top in the past couple of years is j. cole. cole is very similar to nas in his lyrics that paint pictures for the listener. he has no trouble taking you down memory lane and letting you experience everything he’s been through in life. cole is so influential that he even got an offer to sign with roc nation , allowing jay - z to help him blow up in the rap game early in his career. his second mixtape , “the warm up , ” really proved his potential and got him recognized as a premiere rapper. his first studio album , cole world : the sideline story was good , however , it was obvious that he could do much better. most of the album didn’t show his deep lyricism and instead it showed that he could put out hit songs such as “can’t get enough” and “nobody’s perfect.” cole then waited to release his next album and in the time between then he really started to show his true potential. he featured with artists such as kendrick lamar and drake and he finally became truly noticed by the music industry. just recently he released his second studio album , “born sinner , ” and it will definitely go down as one of the best new rap albums of all time. his flow is stupendous , the beats are deep and catchy , and the story behind it all is riveting. cole is now clearly in his prime and claimed a spot at the top of the music industry as a rapper
if you were to go back to 2010 , people probably wouldn’t have a clue as to who asap rocky and the asap mob were. today , rocky is one of the most popular rappers in the game today. his debut mixtape “live. love. asap.” was released in 2011 and that allowed him to take the music business by storm. the mixtape can be considered one of the best mixtapes of the past five years with hits such as “roll one up” and “purple swag.” once asap rocky gained fame , he started to collaborate with many popular artists such as drake , kendrick lamar , schoolboy q and others. this allowed him to get more and more recognition eventually getting him to a spot where he could release a hyped up album. the album that had listeners waiting on the edge of their seats for was titled “long. live. asap.” and it didn’t disappoint at the slightest. although it would appear that rocky left his more ghetto - styled rap lyrics behind , in a way he converted to mainstream. in no way is converting to the mainstream a bad thing but this has allowed asap to receive extreme stardom and even get multiple hits on the radio. some of the bigger hits of the year that came off the debut album are goldie , fuckin’ problems , wild for the night , and 1train. he has also proven that he is extremely well known because of the number of people that collaborated with him on the album , singles and even other’s albums and mixtapes. rocky has become so influential because of the fact that he definitely has a foot in the door in the mainstream world of the rap industry. his songs are constantly played on the radio and his flow and topics he chooses to rap about are copied by listeners. some examples of that are his references to smoking blunts , drinking lean and rocking exotic clothing apparel similar to kanye west. in my opinion , asap rocky has truly become one of the most influential rappers in the game today. he is all over the music industry , he is pioneering new flows and styles of rap , and his future songs and albums will definitely sell many copies , all while influencing upcoming rappers this day in age
overall , it is clear who the leaders of the new school are. kendrick lamar , j. cole and asap rocky are definitely leading the way for aspiring artists to learn from their style and how they compose themselves as famous rappers. all of these musicians have released hit albums that can be considered some of the best of the decade and they can be found all over the music world. it’s always necessary for rappers to step up and take the lead to show future rappers how it’s done. without biggie and 2pac , without nas and snoop dogg , without jay - z and kanye west , the rap game wouldn’t have anybody to follow after. kendrick , cole , and rocky have surely taken on the roles as leaders of the rap game today