you’ve been away from the spotlight a little bit. was that a conscious decision ?
how has the making of the music changed , then ?
this is more free than i’ve ever been. i’ve never been this free making music , ever. i’m experimenting , listening , and looking for different sounds
looking back at long live a$ap , are there any regrets ?
yeah. i’ve got that cliché thing where i hate my biggest songs
i remember yams saying he didn’t like “wild for the night.” would you ever make another song like that ?
there’s no need to
no ? what other flaws did you see in the last album ?
that album was rushed
by whom ?
me
why ?
in the three years since we last spoke , what has changed most about you ?
how do you view life differently ?
i don’t take people for granted no more. nobody’s promised tomorrow. i cherish everybody while they’re here right now
is that something that you didn’t do before ?
sometimes. i was oblivious. i did that by default. i was always away and getting caught up in my own life
one of the new songs starts out : “gentrification split the nation i was raised in.” it’s one of the more politically conscious things you’ve written. what do you see when you look at the state of america right now ?
sure. so it’s safe to say that women still inspire you ?
i’m passionate about women. i look for ways to manifest that into my music. if they don’t get the message , then i’ll make something special for them. the message will get through one way or another. i love women. and i love the bitches
what’s the difference ?
there’s a difference
what is it ?
i’m not saying one’s worse than the other , but “women” got they shit together. “bitches” is just out here , all burnt out with they heads cut off. chickenheads. but somebody gotta love these hoes
are you single now ?
no comment
ok , let’s go back to an old relationship : how do you feel about the criticism of iggy azalea for not being an “authentic” rapper ?
so you don’t think the criticism is fair ?
people feel like she’s manufactured
speaking of changes , the been trill/hood by air diss in “multiply” really made noise. what was behind that ?
it’s really nothing
a lot of people cared
no one cares
you know that’s not true
how did they not respect you ?
and what about been trill ?
come on , with the been trill. don’t even get me started because you know. people want me to answer questions they know the answer to. there’s nothing to talk about
are you living a more private life these days ? you weren’t even at new york fashion week heavy this year
i’m not private like i think i’m michael jackson or some shit. i’m just trying to , i don’t know , distance this space between me and social media. me and...just media in general
why ?
it’s the cliché : the media’s good for twisting stuff up and making something out of nothing
for you , that’s new. what changed ?
maybe i came to the conclusion i just didn’t wanna talk to some motherfuckers no more. why do we go from liking blue today to red tomorrow ? i don’t know. motherfuckers change. when i wanna talk , i’mma do it. when i wanna be places , i’ll go. i prefer to be free. and i feel like when you live that life of paparazzi , media , social media , when shit hits the fan , they’re gonna be the same people that destroy you. so i don’t wanna give them the credibility of making me , because when it’s all said and done , the motherfuckers won’t be able to break me
we talked about you being an artist before a rapper­—
—there’s a difference. let’s be clear on that
do you feel slighted when people call you a rapper ?
no , because that’s gonna happen. that’s what i do. but i feel like nowadays , the term “rapper” doesn’t mean anything honorable
how so ?
when you walk through hotels in foreign countries , they assume you’re either an athlete or a rapper. it’s almost like : rappers are becoming the new ged way out of things
a few weeks ago , we talked about not rushing art. what’s going on with the album ? is it ready ?
no matter what , it’s never enough time. you’re always gonna say , “wait , give me two more seconds. let me get a couple more minutes.” when you’re a perfectionist and trying to craft a really dope piece of art , shit...
who were your muses for this album ? and inspiration ?
michèle lamy , my relationship status , my social status , danger mouse , just my life , my current situation with a$ap. and drugs
what kind of drugs ?
psychedelics. before it was all about the slowdown. promethazine. codeine flow. now it’s like that , but on another level to the max
are you still taking them ?
i use them to my advantage. it’s not something i wanna fuck with all the time. that’s the beauty of it. you can dip and dab with the psychedelics , but that ain’t something i wanna keep doing. nah
when we were in l.a. , you were listening to a bunch of different types of music
i’m going to be honest with you , man. when yams died , psychedelic music healed me. stuff like the the mysterians , “96 tears.” that’s all the stuff i love. i love classic rock. take the doors—those organs. it’s why i love danger mouse’s aesthetic
i always loved the mantra of a$ap bari’s clothing line , vlone : “live alone , die alone.” how does that play into your life ?
if you look at the concept of birth and death it’s , like , i would rather be “vlone” because you’re born alone and you die alone
is that something you feel like you live consistently ?
for sure. especially when you got loved ones popping in and out your life and shit
any plans for the day the album drops ?