a perfect mistake
manifesto ( ft beardo )
( j. counselman ; m. mathers )
written by john counselman produced by eminem for aftermath records recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studios contains a sample of " shady narcotics " by eminem additional vocals by beardo
sideline love story
( counselman ; j. cole )
written by john counselman produced by j. cole for roc nation music recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studios contains a sample of " sideline story " by j. cole
bacon
( counselman ; j. counselman ii ; a. yates )
written by john counselman , aaron yates , moses levi produced by oh2bdaman for you think that was cool productions recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studios contains a sample of " shhhhh " by shyne
hip - hop ( ft jennifer juniper )
( counselman ; k. khaled ; n. jones ; b. jordan ; e. ortiz ; c. martin ; j. molina ; a. counselman )
written by john counselman , khaled khaled , brad jordan , jennifer molina produced by justice league for we the best music group recorded by alexis counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studios & khaled khaled at dj khaled's home studio & jennifer molina @ cypress creek high school radio recording studio contains a sample of " hip - hop " by dj khaled additional vocals by jennifer juniper
family affair ( ft applesauce )
( counselman ; counselman ii ; a. counselman )
written by john counselman , moses levi produced by oh2bdaman for you think that was cool productions recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studio & alexis counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studio contains a sample of " you're welcome " by shyne additional vocals by applesauce
gettin it
( counselman ; counselman ii )
written by john counselman produced by oh2bdaman for you think that was cool productions recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studios
nightmare ( silent death , pt 1 )
( counselman ; m. gomez )
written by john counselman produced by spydar for paper stunnas music recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studios contains a sample of " rip ray " by tech n9ne
exodus 23 : 1 ( ft daz villa )
( counselman ; e. encarnacion ; k. west ; t. thornton )
written by john counselman , eduardo encarnacion , terrance thornton produced by kanye west for good music recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studios and eduardo encarnacion @ daz villa's home studio contains a sample of " exodus 23 : 1 " by pusha t additional vocals by daz villa
prayer ii
( counselman )
written by john counselman recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studios
uoeno ( ft future )
( counselman ; r. hill ; n. cash ; w. roberts )
written by john counselman , nayvadius cash produced by childish major for freebandz music group recorded by john counselman & really ghetto mall recording studio & nayvadius cash @ future's home studio contains a sample of " uoeno " by rocko additional vocals by future
crazy about you ( ft anna )
( counselman )
written by john counselman produced by sho - down for rockit productions recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studio contains a sample of " crazy about you " by sho - down additional vocals by anna
dimensional acid ( ft a - smooth )
( counselman ; gomez ; a. copper ; j. taylor )
written by john counselman , allen copper produced by spydar for paper stunnas music recorded by michael gomez @ really ghetto mall recording studio & allen copper @ a - smooth's home studio contains a sample of " the city " by the game additional vocals by a - smooth
waiting ( ft the worker )
( counselman ; j. chilombo )
written by john counselman produced by the worker for paper stunnas music recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studio contains a sample of " the beginning " by jhene aiko additional vocals by the worker
spend some time
( counselman ; mathers )
written by john counselman , marshall mathers produced by eminem for aftermath records recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studios & andre young @ dr dre's home studio contains a sample of " spend some time " by eminem additional vocals by eminem
lyrical homicide
( counselman , gomez , a. graham , t. thornton )
written by john counselman , michael gomez , aubrey graham , terrance thornton produced by sho - down for rockit productions recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studio contains a sample of " murderous " by sho - down
oh2bdaman cypher
( counselman iii ; counselman ii ; m. moody ; b. muniz )
written by john counselman , miranda moody , bryanna muniz produced by oh2bdaman for you think that was cool productions recorded by john counselman iii @ really ghetto mall recording studio & john counselman ii @ oh2bdaman's home studio additional vocals by miranda
levels ( ft tha clip )
( counselman ; i. santos ; m. santos )
written by john counselman , isaah santos produced by to beats for maybach music group recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studio & marceo santos @ tha clip's home studio contains a sample of " levels " by meek mill
work ( based freestyle ) ( ft apollo )
( counselman ; p. russell ; b. mccartney )
written by john counselman , phillip russell produced by chinza for asap mob music recorded by john counselman @ really ghetto mall recording studio contains a sample of " work " by asap ferg
executive producers : god , john counselman iii , john counselman ii , and isaah santos
mastered by john counselman
( c ) 2014 paper stunnas music