read this before you add to or change this page ! highest up - votes :
50+
stankyboy - guys i think athy and i found shadowman16 on youtube in the comments on hopsins new song lmaoooo
slim - cartman - the search for the worst - episode 7 : pound syndrome
slim - cartman - stupid things my friends said about music
slim - cartman - slim - cartman's top 100 albums rap of 2016
cheguevara_kb24stan - the miseducation of lauryn hill appreciation thread
marriedtothegame - new eminem leak ( new shit )
blazingwaters - can we stop overpraising stillmatic already ?
untitled - every girl on relapse ( happy birthday relapse )
slim - cartman - slim - cartman's top 50 rap albums #5 - 1
hopsinxeminemfanfiction - is vince staples actually white ?
vinylzombie_mcr - thank you , genius.
hopsinxeminemfanfiction - kanye west is the worst artist of all time.
streetlights - transcription iq is finally here
lordprettyflackojunior - new travis scott album anticipation thread
themilesd - draw album covers revamp
hopsinxeminemfanfiction - views is 10 times better than mmlp
didact - why kanye west is easily a top 10 rapper of all - time
didact - kendrick lamar and rap genius forums
didact - kanye west the life of pablo song artwork
didact - you're telling me i fell off fat motherfucker ? c'mon bronson !
allcapsification - album for an album
seamusm - if the music doesn't sound good , rhyme schemes and other technical skills don't matter.
anonymous_notoriety - if rappers were kids at the playground
slickk - rap genius guidelines
khroam - chief keef is the greatest rapper of all time
khroam - rip plug.dj
mvds - the official rg classic survey - results
mvds - mvds reviews : chance the rapper's acid rap
mvds - mvds reviews : kanye west's 808s & heartbreak
mvds - mvds reviews : kanye west's the life of pablo
nano miratus - badges ! 3
kuzgun - top 10 white girl remarks on " stupidest shit you've heard white girls say about rap "
onemanband - the struggle is real
shooter starz - kanye west's swish just leaked !
therealisback - lil waynes girlfriend ( she's bad ) ....
therealisback - most iconic " hip hop lines " off all - time.....
therealisback - rappers looking depressed
kanyesucksdealwithit - so today i'm going to talk about betteroffdead
kanyesucksdealwithit - womens legs when liquid swords comes on
ydb - goodbye thread
kanyesucksdealwithit - our lord donger has contracted aids
theyoungdirtybastard - tpab review by ydb ! ! !
duppystolemynametherealisback - mf doom has some goat album covers.....
duppystolemynametherealisback - bill nye look like he finna drop aoty...
kuzgun - rap would you rather
inspectahduck - liquids swords : an insight into the 'goat' chamber
theyoungdirtybastard - john cena is 10x the rapper kendrick is
theyoungdirtybastard - why andre 3k is a horrible person and rapper
therealisback - chief keef old af....
lord slug - native americans inspired hip hop culture
kanyesucksdealwithit - why does rg act like good doesn't exist ?
rapmusiq - remember when luda exposed big sean and drake ?
mvds - mvds reviews : pusha t's my name is my name
mvds - mvds reviews : kanye west's yeezus
shooterstarz - the importance of hooks
theyoungdirtybastard - just seen a movie with meek mill and nicki minaj in it
theyoungdirtybastard - my plan to get drake pregnant
idontgiveashit - scopey doo
murk - jazz is shit ! ?
murk - hip - hop news : hopsin reportedly on new episode of " how to catch a predator "
murk - the history of flow series - " ( 1960 - 1982 ) old school/classic hip - hop "
therealisback - $1 , 302 , 000 , 000 in one picture
therealisback - big sean if he was white....
therealisback - kendrick lamar crying...
kanyesucksdealwithit - kanyesucksdealwithit's top 20 rappers in one thread ( no explanations )
mbmiii - fuck @streetlights
moesomething - ya mom's first pic on instagram
theyoungdirtybastard - miley fucks up asap rocky's name at vma's
aubreyenlightener - started from the bottom , 0 to 100 , and versace are perfect and glorious examples of how mediocre aubrey truly is
king milkshake - am i the only 1 tired of these fake nwa fans ?
mvds - top 50 favourite rappers - #50 - #46 by mvds
discussthisfact - life is good review
kanyesucksdealwithit - things i didnt know before i joined rap genius
mirandakerryoucouldreallygetit - jafar....
kanyesucksdealwithit - rg after 12am eastern time
theyoungdirtybastard - if every rapper was an animal
scopey - dehh shouted out skopey
abc12345 - kendrick lamar wants to be lupe fiasco so bad
jtrza - earl sweatshirt exposed ! ! ! ***must see***
king milkshake - ot : the most thuggish thing you've ever done ?
jimjamsandwich - theery on tpab
king milkshake - wtf are you doing drake
king milkshake - kendrick lamar reacts to rg tpab hate
king milkshake - king kunta remix
cruz - i'm a j cole fan but damn...
a1_day - get ready to laugh at these lost souls ( friendzone central )
kev - cue - my problem with people calling a certain song/album/mixtape/rapper real hip hop
vr46 - eminem is gay , proof inside
vr46 - kendrick caught cheating with iggy azalea
vr46 - mf doom - the genius behind the mask part 1
vr46 - why tba is my favorite jay - z album
vr46 - the notorious b.i.g. - what could have been
thatonelogicaldude - hey kanye , how many times do you have sex with kardashian booty a day ?
blunderful - me when
odeon - eminem - trap god 3
hellblazer - ur fukked kid
drrrooooppppp - big l rip
open mike aguila - " forever " youtube comments compilation
jason d. morris - my discussions with lil pio : a memorial for his passing to reverbnation
streetlights - second single off rap genius mixtape ( isaiah g x aaron deux )
open mike aguila - i luv kendrick lamar
ughnicewatch - kanye's cultural crucifixion
jason d. morris - high school yearbook rapper photos
thatonelogicaldude - there is only one rapper no one can hate...
2604 - jay rock doing some backflips on stage ! ! ! !
blunderful - rap genius in a nutshell
jackaflockaflame - b4.da.$$ appreciation thread
teamjimmy - i am not a human being ii review
nlbway - mf doom - " figaro " rhymescheme - nlbway
luckyafrocentric - top 50 rappers by luckyafrocentric ( 05 - 01 )
x - pert_commander - kanye takes an l
thaprocrastinator - white peple sux tey isnt reel rap my negus ! onli blak ppl shud rap ! reel rap !
lisa wray - new announcement : genius android beta app ! !
drrrooooppppp - lupe is praising tpab
dennismate - rare photos of young thug doing his thang in the studio ! !
xenophontis - kendrick is older than pac was when he died
kb24stan - the worst part of tpab
dennismate - nas is a confirmed hopsin stan
c_goomba - kanye west rpg
wild rose chance - ot : homophobia is bigotry
2rawdgk - why i think hopsin is better than kendrick lamar
huge_e_rection - inspectahduck reviews act ii
capraaegagrushircus - super in - depth review : to pimp a butterfly
dennismate - calling out eminem and his hair
hueythefreeman - why can't i call kendrick a goat ?
uoenoah - kendrick biting hopsin
mynamescody - me rapping all your fault by big sean ft. kanye west
pakyed - create corny lines.
rap - musiq - so i finally listened to the drake album....
dennismate - how joey bada$$ got his name
bluemajik - do u ever look back...
dennismate - find kanye !
soulbrotherno3 - what would rappers look like with lorde’s hair
sdin1212 - bill cosby on rap album covers
rapfanatic - me performing with ghostface killah
bygdreams - if rappers had their own cereal
iron_clientele - put ralph wiggum into rap album covers
threshold - rap genius has sold it's soul to satan
regularry - are you fucking kidding me rap genius ?
47gc - rg : goodbye - 47
depressed - bogeham - joey top 5
laurylovedrg - ot : i've spoken with one of the girls sdvg portrays as through facebook
b4da$$ - album covers without the text
nigel - rap memes
cequence - this is why i hate rap/hip hop fans
cequence - kanye water u doin ! ? ! ? ! ?
crookedmoderator - mhealx's fw he sees kim kardashian's ass
mariobigzub - new lil wayne song " d'usse " and it's fireeee
6xplatinum - rg rap battle : year 2
doctorstrange - damn hip - hop you're scary !
hmn - new lil wayne feat. drake - - believe me
reflectioneternal - 100 , 000 iq
mykro - game genius is here
streetlights - rap genius tape ( volume 1 )
depressed insomniac - unconstructively criticize a rapper you like/dislike
regularry - official bump thread
dudewithswag - lmfao at this shit
lew ashby - a wild kendrick appears
sdin1212 - why hasn't this been done yet ? ? ?
chitownguevara - logic gets rekt by rg editor
cequence - kanye water u doin ! ? ! ? ! ?
lew ashby - kanye tells kid at the airport if he throws his nikes in the trash he'll give him new adidas yeezys
the_midget - pusha t's subject matter
lew ashby - kanye's new album will be called " so help me god "
lew ashby - yet another proof that complex are idiots
lew ashby - trash squad entertainment presents
ibcircuits - pakyed's unreleased music video
icepube - goodbye rg a message from gangstaoflove
unfuckwitable - rae sremmurd taking a pic with a fan !
the god of logic - there is only one rapper no one can hate
gucciflipflops - how to get upvotes on rg for new users
gucci flipflops - drake is trash
inspectahduck - album rating of sremmlife
inspectahduck - top 50 albums oat #5 - 1
inspectahduck - top 50 albums oat #45 - 41
inspectahduck - top 50 albums oat #50 - 46
inspectahduck - top 50 albums oat vol. 3 #5 - 1
inspectahduck - liquid swords : an insight into the 'goat' chamber
mvds - top 50 favourite rappers - #5 - #1 by mvds
simple_pimple - kanye west releases only one
poetickortuption - why listening to an album more than once is important
poetickoruption - listens to ____ once
time_is_illadelph/andyousaychicity - who's a better rapper ? spongebob or squidward ?
muthurfuckur - hi , me from ghana , me no have iq !
onemanband - the struggle is real
newworldwar - the ending of the blacker the berry
time_is_illadelph/andyousaychicity - skipping homecoming tonight just so i can listen to the new freddie gibbs album
time_is_illadelph/andyousaychicity - a - f - r - o blocked me on instagram lol
time_is_illadelph/andyousaychicity - is it surprising how the most annoying kid my grade is a big time hopsin fan ?
newworldilladelph/andyousaychicity - i did a presentation on outkast in one of my classes today and i nailed it
newworldilladelph/andyousaychicity - have you ever asked a feminist if they listen to ludacris ?
newworldilladelph/andyousaychicity - yo , you guys see lupe's recent instagram posts lmfao
60+
andyousaychicity - throwback to the time i called tech n9ne corny as fuck and he responded to me by saying " your mama ! "
stankyboy - kendrick's ugly ass look like a toad
regularry - i must share this vine with the world
huge_e_rection - intense porno ending
mcdiddle - madfeelin
drrrooooppppp - can this be the new hopsin hated punchline ?
drrrooooppppp - apple music is the goat music service for this
onemanband - i love scopey
slim - cartman - slim - cartman's top 100 albums rap of 2016
wackowizard - when kendrick lamar tries to pick a major
anonymous_notoriety - if rappers were kids at the playground
hopsinxeminemfanfiction - if the rap game was high school
hopsinxeminemfanfiction - if rappers were countries
diana - westcoast owns 2015
onemanband - bill o'reilly reviews : 90059 by jay rock
khroam - 69420 iq !
chamkoopa - eminem will finally perform the goat song !
nlbway - back in time project | week 1 : 1988
kanyesucksdealwithit - ben's ( aka kanyesucksdealwithit ) final thread
leading tttv - kendrick lamar iappeared in futurama
theyoungdirtywalrus - leak of new rap genijs layout ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 1
kanyesucksdealwithit - my unpopular opinions
kanyesucksdealwithit - lines that got u doing the....
kanyesucksdealwithit - can we stop calling kendrick lamar kenny ?
blunderful - barack obama has a dope discography of fire mixtapes
kanyesucksdealwithit - steve harvey's reactions to albums
kev - cue - lil wayne influenced to pimp a butterfly * rar3 * 2016
therealisback - heaven for a hip hop head.....
kanyesucksdealwithit - things that are better than hot 97
king milkshake - hood politics remix
lozoplh - ot : what's bothering you ? what's on your mind ? ( no - hate zone )
murk - is rg acting like busta didn't have a more impressive verse on calm down ?
huge_e_rection - vintage pic , circa 2004 , nas , eminem , kanye jay z visit kfc
huge_e_rection - apparently kanye and jigga are in another country working on swish
nlbway - top 50 favorite rappers ( 10 - 1 ) + desrpitions
bdp29 - gambino wack lines compilation
mattw116 - kendrick lamar : master of dramatic structure
chamkoopa - em's verified !
trane - rappers look alikes from the opposite sex !
regularry - jaden smith unveils the truth
cjlol - assholes in hip hop. my story from today
isaiah g - isaiah g x chop - cheesin' ( prod. freddy mummix )
ughnicewatch - young thug facing jail time
regularry - never forget - r.i.p. in peace
illest_son - ot : drake pictured with his killer !
sinsin - your typical conscious rap only listeners day
wadesworld - *warning graphic content* ymcmb......flopped
reflectioneternal - bruh is this mcdonalds empty ?
piozon - rapgenius ? more like mategenius
haru - editor chat...
angstriddledteenager - tyler the creator with the shit
regularry - doom is not on twitter
unfuckwithable - logic - under pressure leaked !
youngniggahustlin - drugs made and is slowly ending wiz khalifa's career...
penguin_flinging_contest - describe a hip hop album with a spongebob
blakkksteel - pharoahe monch appreciation thread
depressed insomniac - holy shit. mind = blown
metaworldpeace - announcement : community staff !
brock - i should call my phone drake...
b4da$$ - 26 types of rappers in the studio
mc crae - hip - hop high : a collective of rappers and what they were like in high school
tyrosine - yeezus leaked
slickk - snoop dogg just went full retard...
kid_kamikazee - fuck your imagination : generation ii
scottish - lady - women contributers
captpierce - gifs recreating the solo album covers of jay - z
streetlights - clippers owner makes racist remarks and tells girlfriend to stop being around minorities
wolfofmichiganave - here's how i look at macklemore
tyrantx - kanye west - the man , the movement
piozon - r.i.p. p - stunna : a memorial for my second client
streetlights - schoolboy q threatens to kill macklemore
shawnbeats - your funniest misheard rap lyric ?
joelphilomath - kreayshawn's album flops
rtjii - am quitting rg
piozon - aesop rock discography
starvin_marvin - so what do we think about the nigga who invented music ?
viquid - if i was a mod...
pakyed - which pic looks better for a mixtape cover ?
fredointhecut - rip macklemore's career ( dressed up as a jew while performing thrift shop )
oceangangordrownbbdgtvs - rap genius user slickk exposed
detroit leprechaun - the buddy system
vic7nd - caught @malcolmflex sleeping
captpierce - heisenberg : the walter white lp
illest_son - ot : best wwii .gif ever
scienceadonis - hi , i'm sarah and am part of the al qaeda : )
scottfree - ot : black people looking unimpressed
123andtotha4 - make a mykro meme
joeyyfatass - kanye charging $120 for a plain white tee
iamtaylorgang - lil wayne : overrated or underrated ?
rtjii - king kendrick has officially went platinum
uf - kanerbis is teh goatest raper
nossay - user review : malcomflex
spinspeed - so i was on wikipedia....
littlenick - tomorrows my first fight with a bully...help ?
mynamescody - ot : common awkward human interactions
intensified - sad kanye
47gc - let's take a look at the confirmed producers for b4.da.$$
swagyeezy - how rg explains lyrics
ibcircuits - pics of rg users
lew ashby - drake's secret notebook
lew ashby - hopsin music used for scientific purposes
lew ashby - ded ; el - p getting attacked by pubeless teens rn on twitter over taylor swift comment
lew ashby - fact : drake has 7 undeniable classics
lew ashby - hip - hop ain't the same no more
gucciflipflops - vince staples exposes schoolboy q
70+
goatsemen - 100 , 000th thread
coeus - girls who say they like rap
crackowlicious - some kanyelephants up in here
mynamescody - could their possibly be a " stan 2 " from eminem ?
slim - cartman - slim - cartman's top 100 albums rap of 2016
prebby - shit only a stan would say
kuzgun - stupidest shit you've heard white girls say about rap
nlbway - top 20 newschool rappers ( 10 - 1 )
thewaters - nas debut album - 'illmatic' tracklist and cover leak
uncledb - common appreciation thread
kanyesucksdealwithit - the reason i dont like meek mill
theyoungdirtybastard - if every rapper was an animal
dongerlord - meekzilla is very crossed ( ͡↑ ͜ʖ ͡↑ )
idontgiveashit - another god damn eminem thread
funk_volume_2001 - ot : help i am getting harrased by rg user
inspectah duck - anthony fantano was at my gym ! ! !
khalilthegoat - i got my dick sucked for reciting kendrick lyrics
ibcircuits - rare pic of teenage nicki minaj and iggy azalea leaked
mvds - did logic just spit the truest lines of the year ?
odeon - eminem - trap god 2
luckyafrocentric - when you find out where a sample came from
fran - soul - pakyed the creator of love genius
milo13 - tech team gone too fucking far
calico - does pusha t look like a cockroach
wolfofwallstreet - ( by request of steb ) : fictional anecdotes of high school drake
don_sensezi - here's a picture that i made and dedicate to unclefondle
qqqq - oxymoron tracklist leaked
ibcircuits - the roots suck !
hatemenow - yes , sdvg is gone
6xplatinum - let's end the swag era
crookedmoderator - ot : white/yellow/purple hat memes
chalfant - ot : thought i would share some of my own art...
captpierce - big krit - mt. olympus
danger ru$$ - security pic of soulja boy getting robbed
streetlights - one main forum ( and #tags )
sdvg - action bronson sought by police for sexually abusing 10 year old girl in long island
lilpun - new mockingjay pic !
lew ashby - to pimp a butterfly really is the actual title of kendrick's album
jason d. morris - aesop rock discography
mvds & inspectahduck - the official rg classic survey
inspectahduck - anthony fantano was at my gym ! !
6xplatinum - your thread sucksinv
80+
roboo - predicting how rappers die
irockrobford - a thread of love
unclebasedlove - common appreciation thread
slickk - madlib announces 2nd collab. album w/ freddie gibbs
futuresucksass - kendrick lamar reveals alternate cover for tpab
lilpun - unseen ready to die artwork !
kanyesucksdealwithit - my first reaction to 90059 ( in ice cube gifs )
maniak zack - i hear my mom fucking through the walls every other night , what song should i blare loud as fuck to make her quit moaning & stfu
( malcolmtextmartinluthorkeyboard - list of famous people promoting tpab )
funk_volume_2001 - hello i drawn rappers
new kendrick lamar song kendrick lamar - the blacker the berry
kyrem - freddie gibbs lmao
nappy - your mom
odeon - eminem - trap god
mynamescody - jaden smith is the smartest kid of this generation
nihaaa - the mods are illumanti
dannybrown_stan - nwts real meaning
dancingjesus - laughing at this hilarious eminem annotation
notuhtroll - top 10 lines from pstunna's " x "
nicknameesco - nicki minaj fires shots at rapgenius !
hellblazer - gordon fucking ramsay
rtjii - king kendrick is the best rapper in the game right now
j - dilla - ot : your stories of awkward and untimely boners
straightface - dolphins ain't what chu thank nigga
piozon - the wall of music : the 1040 edition
jerome - i hate it had 2 be him
kryptic - guess the album
afuliation - dear macmillerstan
black papillon - this rapper the type of teacher ...
matttakesls - new j cole album confirmed !
j trauma - can't believe i found the insane clown posse in my local target !
mseafood - slim , i wrote you but you still ain't calling
lew ashby - daily reminder that drake is a fuck nigga
inspectah duck - album rating of souljaboytellem.com
90+
regularry - earl ethers rap genius
detroit leprechaun - rg's first couple
inspectahduck - inspectahduck says goodbye to this piece of shit forum
tyrosine - ot : pornhub wit dat ether doe
kryptic - ot : how you got banned from club penguin
hellblazer - 2 grams for $40
mrbasedgod - dear kendrick..
grendel - the many moods of eric b
lew ashby - jay z diving like a bitch
rap - musiq - so i finally listened to the drake album...
tinashe - have you heard " 2 on " ft. schoolboy q ? !
100+
thewaters - so i just hit 700 iq points
king_versace - funny joke that i herd lmao
drrrooooppppp - nas is cuming
scopey - some words from scopey ( please read )
therealisback - when nicki & meeks baby comes out light - skinned
regularry - a review of rg album reviews - ry
hempbricks - ot : sfw porn
tearawrist - kendrick's reaction to king kunta leak
king milkshake - 2015 is the turning point in hip - hop history
regularry - slickk sop fucking talking about g eazy
jayswam - kanye the type of nigga...
cequence - omg new logic album information just
leakedliking 90s rap is just a phase
the_midget - mick jenkins irl
sdin1212 - edit earl onto rap albums
slickk - i got to talk to my favorite rapper in chat today
piozon - the wall of music !
twotecs - rap genius magazine
faek - nas rejects
afuiliation - rg got trolled
huf - capital steez is dead. rip
jams / james - drake water you doing
frak - kanye as an 8 year old in china
i_love_sdvg - i love you sdvg
frak - just rapped for kendrick lamar
rimmergawd - detox tracklist leak
that_new_bus_smell - off topic : things you do you think nobody else does
mynamescody - me singing sanctified by rick ross
rimmergawd - ice cube found dead in a hotel
twrocks - anthony fantano on classic album covers
thereal_drc - ot : racism's still alive , they just be concealin' it
canibustanut - lol at this user
open mike aguila - " rap god " youtube comments compiliation
lew ashby - drake is the type of...
hueythefreeman - 100 percent new proof that 2pac is alive
ab - soulstan - eminem has nothing left to prove
lew ashby - to pimp a blowfish
onemanband - bill o'reilly reviews : to pimp a butterfly by kendrick lamar
mhealx - kendrick visits school and freestyles in class. teacher name drops rap genius
ytb - rick ross new mixtape 'it was eaten'
steb - the hailie mathers lp
200+
truly_chancelor - kendrick lamar control memes
shady - any 10/10 ethers you've seen around the internet , post here
steb - unpopular hip - hop opinions - 2025
6xplatinum - the top 10 redmasta " opinion thread " memes
briefcasejoe - ot
mf voltron - itt : classic albums covers done correctly ! ! ! !
pusha t - a message from pusha t to genius
300+
littlenick - i am not happy with rapgenius.com
tedmosby - rappers without eyebrows
childish gambino - " ask me words " - bino ( notero is here too )
nol - good kid , kra.a.b city
maboo - the first thread
400+
redmasta - stop hiding behind the word opinion
600+
scopey - a day in the life of kanye west
in a category of its own
nappy - monkey face's tinder adventures
highest down - votes :
- 20
triple - drake is the best rapper ever , french montana is better than biggie
qsmrf - kendrick album tracklist revealed
dennismate - seriously why do people like this album its so old !
dennismate - kendrick new song - the whiter the cracker
dennismate - b4.da.$$ review
rapgenious - travis $cott is kid cudi with a brittish accent. and dj khaled is the new big pun
meg_jb - omg , but is your fave...
dagoons - give me reasons why drake isnt a legend ?
panta - what makes nas a legend ?
clubboi - odd future fucking sucks ! !
forsaken - jay z isn't even top 20
time_is_illadelph - the unpopular opinions of time_is_illadelph
- 25
dbstan - drake is the new andre 3000
tracingyourip - dear kendrick fans
4hunnidgs - has kendrick officially fallen off ?
dennismate - andre 3000 isn't as good as everyone says
milo13 - hip hop is overrated
below_zero1 - buy or sell ? 90's hip hop >> today's hip hop
sdvg - what can kendrick do to stop coming off as an annoying douchebag ?
deefreeze - big boi should never rap solo
sdvg - what can kendrick do to stop coming off as an annoying douchebag ?
the act - - i think kanye is autistic
boiiboiii - what's so good about kanye ?
sdvg - lets be real , if mchg was made by a new school poverty rapper
themerovingiandynasty - mmlp is an overrated album
gunsnroses - rap god is the best rap song to come out in the last 10 years
sdvg - it's 2014 , and these are the 4 best hip - hop artists in the game right now
paleface picasso/travisrecords - does anyone feel like reverse racism is a growing problem ?
dbstan - rap god is the best song to come out in last 10 years
frenchmontanastan - french montana > nas
jetselectronicasfather - kanye fans got no reason to like kanye
unfuckwitable - kendrick fell off
aaa000000036773 - the reason people believe nas is better than eminem
basedkrunk - take care > mbdtf > gkmc
genio - rap is like sicssors it always loses to rock
4hunnidgs - kendrick ain't that good it was all in the moment
thatonelogicaldude — how can people say kanye has a great discography ? ( no hate thread )
thatonelogicaldude - did drake ghostwrite to pimp a butterfly ?
onemanband - how is andrea 3000 considered a legend ?
- 50
ibcircuits - kendrick proves ( once again ) that he can't compete with drake
imsogangsta - why eminem is overrated {​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​detailed extended version}​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​
milakunisucouldreallygetit - rap god is the best rap song to come out in the last 10 years
g0d - eminem wrote bad guy back in 2000 and planned it all
milakunisucouldreallygetit - 2pac vs lil wayne
bradley_scott - bad meets evil album would be better without royce da 5'9
emily - new logo ! !
phantasmagoricwisdom - false pretenses
kingdropit - good kid mad city is meh
vr46 - gkmc aged poorly
- 75
therealisback - just reached 600 rg iq !
- 100
rapgenious - i like bein honest , why the fuck are you guys still on 90s rap
sdvg - nas is a failure ( proof inside ! )
open mike aguila - name change update
tom lehman - staffing changes at genius
sdvg - if you take away illmatic and ether , where does nas stand on the goat list ?
- 125
- 150
justahotnigga - hopefully , the king kunta leak will hurt kendrick's sales.
- 180
tom lehman - genius episode iv : a new song page
- 200
sdvg - please tell me why schoolboy q is a good rapper