i. the burial of the dead
april is the cruellest month , breeding
lilacs out of the dead land , mixing
memory and desire , stirring
dull roots with spring rain.
winter kept us warm , covering 5
earth in forgetful snow , feeding
a little life with dried tubers.
summer surprised us , coming over the starnbergersee
with a shower of rain ; we stopped in the colonnade ,
and went on in sunlight , into the hofgarten , 10
and drank coffee , and talked for an hour.
bin gar keine russin , stamm’ aus litauen , echt deutsch.
and when we were children , staying at the archduke’s ,
my cousin’s , he took me out on a sled ,
and i was frightened. he said , marie , 15
marie , hold on tight. and down we went.
in the mountains , there you feel free.
i read , much of the night , and go south in the winter.
what are the roots that clutch , what branches grow
out of this stony rubbish ? son of man , 20
you cannot say , or guess , for you know only
a heap of broken images , where the sun beats ,
and the dead tree gives no shelter , the cricket no relief ,
and the dry stone no sound of water. only
there is shadow under this red rock , 25
( come in under the shadow of this red rock ) ,
and i will show you something different from either
your shadow at morning striding behind you
or your shadow at evening rising to meet you ;
i will show you fear in a handful of dust. 30
frisch weht der wind
der heimat zu ,
mein irisch kind ,
wo weilest du ?
“you gave me hyacinths first a year ago ; 35
they called me the hyacinth girl.”
—yet when we came back , late , from the hyacinth garden ,
your arms full , and your hair wet , i could not
speak , and my eyes failed , i was neither
living nor dead , and i knew nothing , 40
looking into the heart of light , the silence.
öd’ und leer das meer.
madame sosostris , famous clairvoyante ,
had a bad cold , nevertheless
is known to be the wisest woman in europe , 45
with a wicked pack of cards. here , said she ,
is your card , the drowned phoenician sailor ,
( those are pearls that were his eyes. look ! )
here is belladonna , the lady of the rocks ,
the lady of situations. 50
here is the man with three staves , and here the wheel ,
and here is the one - eyed merchant , and this card ,
which is blank , is something he carries on his back ,
which i am forbidden to see. i do not find
the hanged man. fear death by water. 55
i see crowds of people , walking round in a ring.
thank you. if you see dear mrs. equitone ,
tell her i bring the horoscope myself :
one must be so careful these days.
unreal city , 60
under the brown fog of a winter dawn ,
a crowd flowed over london bridge , so many ,
i had not thought death had undone so many.
sighs , short and infrequent , were exhaled ,
and each man fixed his eyes before his feet. 65
flowed up the hill and down king william street ,
to where saint mary woolnoth kept the hours
with a dead sound on the final stroke of nine.
there i saw one i knew , and stopped him , crying “stetson !
you who were with me in the ships at mylae ! 70
that corpse you planted last year in your garden ,
has it begun to sprout ? will it bloom this year ?
or has the sudden frost disturbed its bed ?
oh keep the dog far hence , that’s friend to men ,
or with his nails he’ll dig it up again ! 75
you ! hypocrite lecteur ! —mon semblable , —mon frère ! ”
ii. a game of chess
the chair she sat in , like a burnished throne ,
glowed on the marble , where the glass
held up by standards wrought with fruited vines
from which a golden cupidon peeped out 80
( another hid his eyes behind his wing )
doubled the flames of sevenbranched candelabra
reflecting light upon the table as
the glitter of her jewels rose to meet it ,
from satin cases poured in rich profusion ; 85
in vials of ivory and coloured glass
unstoppered , lurked her strange synthetic perfumes ,
unguent , powdered , or liquid—troubled , confused
and drowned the sense in odours ; stirred by the air
that freshened from the window , these ascended 90
in fattening the prolonged candle - flames ,
flung their smoke into the laquearia ,
stirring the pattern on the coffered ceiling.
huge sea - wood fed with copper
burned green and orange , framed by the coloured stone , 95
in which sad light a carvèd dolphin swam.
above the antique mantel was displayed
as though a window gave upon the sylvan scene
the change of philomel , by the barbarous king
so rudely forced ; yet there the nightingale 100
filled all the desert with inviolable voice
and still she cried , and still the world pursues ,
“jug jug” to dirty ears.
and other withered stumps of time
were told upon the walls ; staring forms 105
leaned out , leaning , hushing the room enclosed.
footsteps shuffled on the stair ,
under the firelight , under the brush , her hair
spread out in fiery points
glowed into words , then would be savagely still. 110
“my nerves are bad to - night. yes , bad. stay with me.
speak to me. why do you never speak ? speak.
what are you thinking of ? what thinking ? what ?
i never know what you are thinking. think.”
i think we are in rats’ alley 115
where the dead men lost their bones.
“what is that noise ? ”
the wind under the door.
“what is that noise now ? what is the wind doing ? ”
nothing again nothing. 120
“do
you know nothing ? do you see nothing ? do you remember
nothing ? ”
i remember
those are pearls that were his eyes. 125
“are you alive , or not ? is there nothing in your head ? ”
but
o o o o that shakespeherian rag—
it’s so elegant
so intelligent 130
“what shall i do now ? what shall i do ?
i shall rush out as i am , and walk the street
with my hair down , so. what shall we do to - morrow ?
what shall we ever do ? ”
the hot water at ten. 135
and if it rains , a closed car at four.
and we shall play a game of chess ,
pressing lidless eyes and waiting for a knock upon the door.
when lil’s husband got demobbed , i said ,
i didn’t mince my words , i said to her myself , 140
hurry up please its time
now albert’s coming back , make yourself a bit smart.
he’ll want to know what you done with that money he gave you
to get yourself some teeth. he did , i was there.
you have them all out , lil , and get a nice set , 145
he said , i swear , i can’t bear to look at you.
and no more can’t i , i said , and think of poor albert ,
he’s been in the army four years , he wants a good time ,
and if you don’t give it him , there’s others will , i said.
oh is there , she said. something o’ that , i said. 150
then i’ll know who to thank , she said , and give me a straight look.
hurry up please its time
if you don’t like it you can get on with it , i said ,
others can pick and choose if you can’t.
but if albert makes off , it won’t be for lack of telling. 155
you ought to be ashamed , i said , to look so antique.
( and her only thirty - one. )
i can’t help it , she said , pulling a long face ,
it’s them pills i took , to bring it off , she said.
( she’s had five already , and nearly died of young george. ) 160
the chemist said it would be alright , but i’ve never been the same.
you are a proper fool , i said.
well , if albert won’t leave you alone , there it is , i said ,
what you get married for if you don’t want children ?
hurry up please its time 165
well , that sunday albert was home , they had a hot gammon ,
and they asked me in to dinner , to get the beauty of it hot—
hurry up please its time
hurry up please its time
goonight bill. goonight lou. goonight may. goonight. 170
ta ta. goonight. goonight.
good night , ladies , good night , sweet ladies , good night , good night.
iii. the fire sermon
the river’s tent is broken : the last fingers of leaf
clutch and sink into the wet bank. the wind
crosses the brown land , unheard. the nymphs are departed. 175
sweet thames , run softly , till i end my song.
the river bears no empty bottles , sandwich papers ,
silk handkerchiefs , cardboard boxes , cigarette ends
or other testimony of summer nights. the nymphs are departed.
and their friends , the loitering heirs of city directors ; 180
departed , have left no addresses.
by the waters of leman i sat down and wept…
sweet thames , run softly till i end my song ,
sweet thames , run softly , for i speak not loud or long.
but at my back in a cold blast i hear 185
the rattle of the bones , and chuckle spread from ear to ear.
a rat crept softly through the vegetation
dragging its slimy belly on the bank
while i was fishing in the dull canal
on a winter evening round behind the gashouse. 190
musing upon the king my brother’s wreck
and on the king my father’s death before him.
white bodies naked on the low damp ground
and bones cast in a little low dry garret ,
rattled by the rat’s foot only , year to year. 195
but at my back from time to time i hear
the sound of horns and motors , which shall bring
sweeney to mrs. porter in the spring.
o the moon shone bright on mrs. porter
and on her daughter 200
they wash their feet in soda water
et , o ces voix d’enfants , chantant dans la coupole !
twit twit twit
jug jug jug jug jug jug
so rudely forc’d. 205
tereu
unreal city
under the brown fog of a winter noon
mr eugenides , the smyrna merchant
unshaven , with a pocket full of currants 210
c. i. f. london : documents at sight ,
asked me in demotic french
to luncheon at the cannon street hotel
followed by a week - end at the metropole.
at the violet hour , when the eyes and back 215
turn upward from the desk , when the human engine waits
like a taxi throbbing waiting ,
i tiresias , though blind , throbbing between two lives ,
old man with wrinkled female breasts , can see
at the violet hour , the evening hour that strives 220
homeward , and brings the sailor home from sea ,
the typist home at tea - time , clears her breakfast , lights
her stove , and lays out food in tins.
out of the window perilously spread
her drying combinations touched by the sun’s last rays , 225
on the divan are piled ( at night her bed )
stockings , slippers , camisoles , and stays.
i tiresias , old man with wrinkled dugs
perceived the scene , and foretold the rest—
i too awaited the expected guest. 230
he , the young man carbuncular , arrives ,
a small house - agent’s clerk , with one bold stare ,
one of the low on whom assurance sits
as a silk hat on a bradford millionaire.
the time is now propitious , as he guesses , 235
the meal is ended , she is bored and tired ,
endeavours to engage her in caresses
which still are unreproved , if undesired.
flushed and decided , he assaults at once ;
exploring hands encounter no defence ; 240
his vanity requires no response ,
and makes a welcome of indifference.
( and i tiresias have foresuffered all
enacted on this same divan or bed ;
i who have sat by thebes below the wall 245
and walked among the lowest of the dead. )
bestows one final patronizing kiss ,
and gropes his way , finding the stairs unlit…
she turns and looks a moment in the glass ,
hardly aware of her departed lover ; 250
her brain allows one half - formed thought to pass :
“well now that’s done : and i’m glad it’s over.”
when lovely woman stoops to folly and
paces about her room again , alone ,
she smoothes her hair with automatic hand , 255
and puts a record on the gramophone.
“this music crept by me upon the waters”
and along the strand , up queen victoria street.
o city city , i can sometimes hear
beside a public bar in lower thames street , 260
the pleasant whining of a mandoline
and a clatter and a chatter from within
where fishmen lounge at noon : where the walls
of magnus martyr hold
inexplicable splendour of ionian white and gold. 265
the river sweats
oil and tar
the barges drift
with the turning tide
red sails 270
wide
to leeward , swing on the heavy spar.
the barges wash
drifting logs
down greenwich reach 275
past the isle of dogs.
weialala leia
wallala leialala
elizabeth and leicester
beating oars 280
the stern was formed
a gilded shell
red and gold
the brisk swell
rippled both shores 285
south - west wind
carried down stream
the peal of bells
white towers
weialala leia 290
wallala leialala
“trams and dusty trees.
highbury bore me. richmond and kew
undid me. by richmond i raised my knees
supine on the floor of a narrow canoe.“ 295
“my feet are at moorgate , and my heart
under my feet. after the event
he wept. he promised ‘a new start.’
i made no comment. what should i resent ? ”
“on margate sands. 300
i can connect
nothing with nothing.
the broken finger - nails of dirty hands.
my people humble people who expect
nothing.” 305
la la
to carthage then i came
burning burning burning burning
o lord thou pluckest me out
o lord thou pluckest 310
burning
iv. death by water
phlebas the phoenician , a fortnight dead ,
forgot the cry of gulls , and the deep seas swell
and the profit and loss.
a current under sea 315
picked his bones in whispers. as he rose and fell
he passed the stages of his age and youth
entering the whirlpool.
gentile or jew
o you who turn the wheel and look to windward , 320
consider phlebas , who was once handsome and tall as you.
v. what the thunder said
after the torch - light red on sweaty faces
after the frosty silence in the gardens
after the agony in stony places
the shouting and the crying 325
prison and place and reverberation
of thunder of spring over distant mountains
he who was living is now dead
we who were living are now dying
with a little patience 330
here is no water but only rock
rock and no water and the sandy road
the road winding above among the mountains
which are mountains of rock without water
if there were water we should stop and drink 335
amongst the rock one cannot stop or think
sweat is dry and feet are in the sand
if there were only water amongst the rock
dead mountain mouth of carious teeth that cannot spit
here one can neither stand nor lie nor sit 340
there is not even silence in the mountains
but dry sterile thunder without rain
there is not even solitude in the mountains
but red sullen faces sneer and snarl
from doors of mud - cracked houses
if there were water 345
and no rock
if there were rock
and also water
and water
a spring 350
a pool among the rock
if there were the sound of water only
not the cicada
and dry grass singing
but sound of water over a rock 355
where the hermit - thrush sings in the pine trees
drip drop drip drop drop drop drop
but there is no water
who is the third who walks always beside you ?
when i count , there are only you and i together 360
but when i look ahead up the white road
there is always another one walking beside you
gliding wrapt in a brown mantle , hooded
i do not know whether a man or a woman
—but who is that on the other side of you ? 365
what is that sound high in the air
murmur of maternal lamentation
who are those hooded hordes swarming
over endless plains , stumbling in cracked earth
ringed by the flat horizon only 370
what is the city over the mountains
cracks and reforms and bursts in the violet air
falling towers
jerusalem athens alexandria
vienna london 375
unreal
a woman drew her long black hair out tight
and fiddled whisper music on those strings
and bats with baby faces in the violet light
whistled , and beat their wings 380
and crawled head downward down a blackened wall
and upside down in air were towers
tolling reminiscent bells , that kept the hours
and voices singing out of empty cisterns and exhausted wells.
in this decayed hole among the mountains 385
in the faint moonlight , the grass is singing
over the tumbled graves , about the chapel
there is the empty chapel , only the wind’s home.
it has no windows , and the door swings ,
dry bones can harm no one. 390
only a cock stood on the roof - tree
co co rico co co rico
in a flash of lightning. then a damp gust
bringing rain
ganga was sunken , and the limp leaves 395
waited for rain , while the black clouds
gathered far distant , over himavant.
the jungle crouched , humped in silence.
then spoke the thunder
da 400
datta : what have we given ?
my friend , blood shaking my heart
the awful daring of a moment’s surrender
which an age of prudence can never retract
by this , and this only , we have existed 405
which is not to be found in our obituaries
or in memories draped by the beneficent spider
or under seals broken by the lean solicitor
in our empty rooms
da 410
dayadhvam : i have heard the key
turn in the door once and turn once only
we think of the key , each in his prison
thinking of the key , each confirms a prison
only at nightfall , aetherial rumours 415
revive for a moment a broken coriolanus
da
damyata : the boat responded
gaily , to the hand expert with sail and oar
the sea was calm , your heart would have responded 420
gaily , when invited , beating obedient
to controlling hands
i sat upon the shore
fishing , with the arid plain behind me
shall i at least set my lands in order ? 425
london bridge is falling down falling down falling down
poi s’ascose nel foco che gli affina
quando fiam ceu chelidon—o swallow swallow
le prince d’aquitaine à la tour abolie
these fragments i have shored against my ruins 430
why then ile fit you. hieronymo’s mad againe.
datta. dayadhvam. damyata.
shantih shantih shantih