details : for a while your twitter account was the most popular in the world , and you're still in the top 10. what's your secret ?
ashton kutcher : a lot of people use social media to share mundane things or for self - glorification. i try to use it to share interesting things with people. tony hsieh , who created zappos.com , said to me , " everything i post on the web has to be icee " —it has to inspire , connect , entertain , or educate. the other important thing about social media is that it's not about what you post but what you listen to. it's about sharing the valuable ideas that you hear. you don't want to be the source of everything , you want to be the pipe for everything
details : what do you think is coming that will blow our minds five or ten years from now ?
ashton kutcher : i think the big next wave will be wearable technologies. your phone will be your true pc , and these technologies will act as your mouse and keyboard. you'll have a high - fashion bracelet that will perform functions for you—it'll track your health , your movement , your sleep , your activity—and by wearing a couple of rings , you'll be able to type in the air or take pictures with your fingers. there'll be a device that will track your eye movement , whether it's an earpiece with a camera or a necklace that can project and record. that tom cruise movie , minority report , got a lot of it right from what i've seen
details : you consult with a lot of the tech companies you invest in. if mark zuckerberg asked you for advice , what would you tell him ?
ashton kutcher : i'd ask him a lot of questions rather than tell him anything. that's generally how i enter the room with all of these guys
details : there's chatter about facebook hitting a plateau. is it in any danger of going the way of myspace ?
ashton kutcher : i actually think twitter has a greater danger of becoming myspace - y. myspace was this open platform , and twitter has the same dynamic : you can have millions of people within your social network , so it goes outside your weak - tie relationships. there's a danger of it becoming spammy , and that's what really hurt myspace. there was more noise than signal. i have people hit my @reply feed every day with garbage , and if twitter doesn't apply the proper filters , it'll be harder to find the information you want. with facebook , i'm probably not going to get spammed from my aunt or my best friend
details : your aunt might spam you with cat photos
ashton kutcher : that's right. and that's okay