i keep it playa while some choose to play it safe
boy check the resume , it's risky business in the a
i keep it playa while some choose to play it safe
boy check the resume , it's risky business in the a
in the a , in the a , in the a , in the a , uh
a , in the a , in the a , in the a , uh
a , in the a , in the a , in the a , uh
a , in the a , in the a , in the a , uh
i'm a bankhead nigga , you can bank that nigga
looking for a sucka , well i ain't that nigga
i'm looking for the money , where the bank at nigga
i'm triple og , outrank that nigga
i'm cold , riding through the city on vogues
30 karats in the rollie for the bitches and the hoes
hanging out the window of a bentley
i just met my connect , dropped off snow in the bluff
on james p. brawley , ain't we ballin'
got a problem with it , nigga bang that 40
niggas nowadays just ain't like shawty
don't spit that cocaine like shawty
set it on fire , they flame ain't like shawty
flow don't go insane , i'm mental
blowing presidential , 20 bricks off in the rental
we official atliens with plenty ye to sell again
dea on our tail again , well tell amigo mail again
dope boy , trap nigga shit i did it
say you want a hundred bricks well i bet i get it
tell them other sucka niggas tryna rep my city
k.i.n.g. bitch best get with it
all i know is go get it , swag so silly
checks on deck , i'm racked up with it
got a house college park , stay stacked up with it
got a louis v bag , stay sacked up with it
big diamonds in my cuban
they won't be where we go shooting , mane
in the a , it's undisputed
we some legends , best to do it , mane
king shit , buckingham palace
til i'm bucking on a muthafuckin' beat goddammit , i
ain't lost a step , but some of y'all niggas flaw to death
since player's ball , i was called the best
and now they only call me daddy fat sax
the cadillac - a with the diamond in the back
with the sunroof top
my daddy said i'm lackin' the vitamin d the sun won't stop
shine brighter , rhyme tighter
than anybody in your top ten my nighga , my nigga
like a postman , i deliver
see i'm the letter with the anthrax in it , pass that , hit it
sniff it , snort it , then gon' take a bump shawty
uh , take a number cause i'm serving the chumps
that wanna jump up and get beat down , i'm brand nubian
brand new again , never get old
when i was little , boy they said i had a old soul
old gold
riding with some pimps on a ho stroll , now that's loco
and you're local , and i'm global
that means worldwide like a rising tide
i'm gonna subside and rise again like clockwork
c - bone is gonna show you how the glock work *brrat*
nonviolent though , no violence , just styling ho
from the birthplace of mlk where everything ain't okay but kkk
i'm more malcolm than martin , come get some , be a target
standing in the kitchen with the ak , aka the choppa
now this is the a - town , come on the premises if you wanna
play with death , you get stung like the crocodile hunter
got them racks , slanging them packs and no we can't leave them sacks alone
hired an assistant cause my weed need a chaperone
( luda ! ) and then big boi will pass the lighter
i'm convinced that we started the california brush fires
one , two , and it don't stop ; so many whips at my crib
ya chick came , the bitch thought it was a road block
spending cash so fast , you'd think i'm foolish
and i love chicks with ass so it arch like st. louis
got chicks hugging my nuts like a speedo
cause when i'm on the mic , i go for broke like t.o
but we know i'm rich and pay the bills at my mother house
atlanta cribs jealous cause i'm chilling at my other house
yeah you may be able to out - trap me
but none of you niggas will ever out - rap me
what is this that you say ? !
what's this you say ?
is that what you say ?
is that what you say ? !
is that what you say ?
they stay out all night on the basketball court
practicing , and practicing their jump shot
practicing their hook - shot
and practicing and practicing , and then they're qualified for the majors
well why can't you stay up all night practicing your multiplication
practicing your chemistry , practicing your physics
why can't you stay up practicing that ? !
if practice makes perfect , then why do you just specialize in fun things
and not in the things that require effort , commitment , and sacrifice