oh ! oh !
you are just what the doctor ordered
ooh , look at there !
i heard you was a pleaser , and baby - oh shit !
man , not my mama ; man , not my mama
man , not my mama ; quit messin with my mama
i love me some of yo mama , ( oh ! ) true that ( true that )
don't call me daddy , only she can do that
ok , me and yo mama be fuckin ( yup )
boy you don't know nothin' about that
you seen her lookin all mad ( mad ) ain't it time for ya nap ?
you wake up , i'm back ( back ) eating up all your snacks ( hah )
don't ask for help with your math ( stupid )
ain't my fault , you can't add
don't be out here fake crying , lying ( boi )
up in the keyhole straight spying
only knock the door if you're dying
i wish i could stay in here forever ( i love it )
you the only reason me and your mama ain't together ( lil bitch )
she's so much better than my old bitch
man , i love that old bitch , i do
oh ! this feels so nice , oh shit !
no stress , no drama
her kids hatin , they know i fucked their mama
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
man not my mama ( i love ya mama , yup )
quit messin with my mama
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
quit messin with my mama
the way she bounce both cheekies , boy she freaky ( freaky )
shoulda known she was kinky
when i walked inside the room and i seen her slinky ( what the fuck )
even made me use my pinky , the way she teach me
it's just so dreamy , oh god , damn , man
i cheat on tests , cheat on hoes , i cheat when i can ( i do )
i'm even cheating on my whip , i got a side benz ( i do )
but she made me wanna cut off all my side friends ( i love you , baby )
a nigga be tryna chase her , take her , date rape her
stand out the daycare sit there and wait there
fuck , i can't even trust the neighbors , damn
( what you lookin at ? ) you niggas stick to your young hoes
i got a freak that wash , dry , and fold clothes ( that's right )
lil motherfuckers ( yeah , that's right )
ooh this great , big , enormous motherfucker !
oh ! just let me , oh ! let me jockey this dick !
no stress , no drama
her kids hatin , they know i fucked their mama
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
man not my mama ( i love ya mama , yup )
quit messin with my mama
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
man not my mama ( i love ya mama )
quit messin with my mama
i got my welfare check , smokin on that crack
hell yeah i'm unemployed , baby daddy down my back
now what you got for me sean ? i heard it's big and it's long
i take my teeth out , suck it good , this where your dick belong
y - y - yeeeaah , do it like dat daddy
pump pump bump bump it in my ass - matic
you ain't tell me you was big - boned
{mom , i'm hungry} shut your mouth , you little bastards go on
( all this ass is for you seany.. can i call you seany ? )
sl - sl - sl - sl - slap me in my face with it , get a crack valve with that bass in it
if i got weed then i'm lacing it , eat all this ass , quit tasting it nigga
man not my mama , man not my mama
man not my mama , quit messin with my mama
man not my mama , man not my mama
man not my mama ; quit messin with my mama
high as a motherfucker ( trippy )
fuckin' e'rybody mama...
i got yo mama all in my line ( line ) , bullets all in my 9 ( 9 )
rollie tell the time , she ain't yours , she ain't mine
throw a hundred every time , i think my coupe just lost its mind ( mind )
put yo mama on that trippy shit , sippin lean , snorting lines ( she high )
overseas like " bonjour " , last ten years i've been on tour
and i still got that old money , i touch more green than a lawnmower
with a ratchet bitch ( bitch ) , you laid up ( stupid ass )
i'm on my tour bus fucking mamas getting paid up
i take that bitch to my mansion ( mansion ) and a nigga can't pay her to leave ( leave )
yo mama a great head doctor ( groupie ) , with no phd ( groupie )
my pockets stuffed with dough , i made it all in the streets
i might just go to the club , and throw it all on a freak
yo mama , ratchet ass bitch
baby , oooooh , can you feel what i feel ? oh shit !
i hope you brought your boots and shoes , cuz motherfucker
i'm gonna be here a while