funky !
ready ?
funky ! funky ! ahhh...
one two , one two
we came here to do the motherfucking do
you and the crew
got my man marley marl in the house
can't forget my man , lik , y'all in the house
got fric and frac in the house
hey - hey - hey , you got big daddy kane in the house
juice crew in the house
that's right
and my name is the biz markie
and we gonna rock a little something like this...
one , two , whatcha gonna do ?
i say yes , yes y'all , to the beat , all
party - having people guaranteed to be like having a ball
h - h - h - hey , we gonna do a little something like this i say...
i'm the rap promoter , i start to motor
tour from new york to south dakota
drink ginger ale or root beer soda
never get the girls with the underarm odor
put me on water , i'm a good floater
when i run for prez , you best be a voter
once knew a girl by the name of rhoda
i watched star wars just to see yoda
or r2 - d2 driving down the bq
when i buy franks , i make sure they're hebrew
when i entertain , and love to treat you
love to see a girl in a nightie that's see - through
take her to the crib , turn on the beta
watch a good flick by arnold schwarzenegger ;
maybe *commando* or *the terminator*
peace party people , ha ha see you later
big daddy , huh huh , my man my mellow
get on the mic cause you know you eat jell - o
check it out , y'all
you don't stop , keep on
well it's the kane in the flesh , of course i'm fresh
oh you thought that i was rotten ? huh , i beg your pardon
to me getting paid and getting busy fall together
so a man of my ambiance...never !
could i be weak , nah why i'm rather unique
i got style , flavor , grace , and plus a different technique
that i be using and not many can manage
so a brother like me , i do damage
just by picking up the mic to go solo
i cold turn a party on out , and oh yo
i get physical , mystical , very artistical
giving party people something funky to listen to
that's why the other mc's can't swing long
i stomp them out just like i was king kong
stepping on roaches , i get ferocious
supercalifragilisticexpialidocious
i go on and on and on and
until the bright shirley murdock morning
cause i'mma pimp , hear the primp , yes the emp -
eror , bringing much terror in your era
i'm ready , willing and i'm able , so bust a move
never use a barbershop i got my homeboy smooth
cooling out with the clippers right around the way
to keep my fresh cameo cut every day
like that y'all , it's like that y'all
it's like thata - the - that , it's like that y'all
cause i'm the prosecutor , taking a stand
and , i'm cross - examining you my man
the judge and jury , releasing my fury
the verdict that i reach for you is rather blurry
you see , the name kane is superior to many people
it means king asiatic , nobody's equal
i hate to brag , but damn i'm good
and if mics were a gun , i'd be clint eastwood
and if rap was a game , i'd be mvp
most valuable poet on the m - i - c
or if rap was a school , i'd be the principal
aw fuck it , the kane is invincible
to be specific , i may die one day
but my rhymes will remain like a hieroglyphic
it's a certain special skill that takes much practice
i got it good , apparently you lack this
so in turn , sit back and learn
listen close , this is for your own concern
let me show you exactly how it's properly done
lights , camera , action
a rap pro , do a show , good to go , also
cameo afro , virgo , domino
i go rambo , gigolo , romeo
friday night spend money on a ho -
tel , to get a good night's sleep , i'm keeping in step
now do i come off ? yep