chorus :
anything goes when it comes to hoes , they go :
pimpin' ain't easy ( pimpin' ain't eeeeeee - zyyyyyy ) 6x
one - two - three - four , to five - six - seven
eight , nine - ten , then ya got eleven
twelve , thirteen , start your age ;
fourteen - fifteen - sixteen , the pubic stage
like an apple , like a cherry , like a peach , like a plum
let me get off the virgin before i cuuuuum !
pick up my pants and thump and thump
i think i'll call up tootie , she'll give me some
watch out , watch out i'm drippin' live scum
i say damn , i love the way i make my posse roll - a
'specially when the hoochie's on birth control - a
lift her up just like a pick up truck
then i sat her down and we started to fuck
made whoopie , made whoopie , made whoopie , yo - o - o - o - o !
i hope this time i don't make a cookie
brothers everywhere be callin' me a rookie
two from the greg nice from the o - o - old schoooooool
but bullshit , i ain't no fool , cuz
well , i say...extra ! extra !
here is a bachelor comin' straight at ya
i see trim and bag it , take it home and rag it
the big daddy law is anti - faggot
that means no homosexuality ;
what's in my pants'll make you see reality
and if you wanna see a smooth black casanova - - bend over !
cuz i don't half - step when it comes to broads
the k - a - n - e 'll go the whole nine yards
there's no time for coversation my dear
so let's make a move , as i get smooth
cuz the purpose i serve is to soothe
i'm tall , dark and handsome and all that junk
even white girls be sayin' " ooh , kane's a hunk ! "
even puerto rican girls be callin' me papi
some try to copy , but they look sloppy
so imitators that wanna step to a
brother like me , lick my manure !
i'm just goin' and i'm flowin' like a gigolo
and when i used to be with scott , i was a super - ho
but now i'm coolin' with kane and greg n - i - c - e
and if you girlies want my tip they gotta pay a fee
i love bonin' , and all my friends they will agree
that when it comes to pimpin' hoes...it ain't easy
first name : smooth. last name : b
when i'm bonin' a girl , i make her feel heavenly
i like to make 'em wait , and then make 'em beg
and when i take off my clothes , the i form a third leg
they rub it with oils and suck it with ice
now i'm sweating....my mind is in paradise...
tip - tip - toein' , scoob lover's out hoein'
braggin' to the fellas how my flattop was growin'
buyin' drinks for the ladies , money i was blowin'
right in front of me...mmm...not even knowin'
a brown - skinned cutie ; big , plump booty
nametag earrings readin' off " tootie "
bullseye , bing , the girl of my dreams ;
from my eyesight that was what it seemed
i said , uh , " come a little bit closer "
to scoob that night , choice guy , she said " hi
hi...hi , i've really been wantin' to meet you
i just got paid and i'll be very glad to treat you
how 'bout dinner , a salisbury steak ? "
i said , " sorry honey - dip , but i already ate "
so i nudged the other girlies off my shoulder
went for tootie cuz the girl was much older
east to the benz , i slowly walked ;
clearing out my throat so i cold start my smooth talk
sex in my mind , i was sure of it...
i wanted to tax that ass like the government !
well , it's friday night , ain't a damn thing funny - -
bitch better have my money