i'm a cracker ass cracker that'll smack a wack rapper
'till his hat is ass - backwards , and his face is fucked
a cheesy ass white who's decent at rap fights
as recent as last night , i disgraced an' ducked
a crazy type cat so don't play me like that
'cuz maybe i might snap , on some psycho shit
yes ! pyscho indeed , with a light growing weed
hydroponic micro machines , on some tyco shit
i'm a balling ass fool that'll call your ass foolin'
like , paula abdul , tell you straight up i'm hot
i'm just a—vocal batt - ler , who could be at the local tavern
or globally traveling i can't stay in one spot
we them rappers who stay ripping shit
who happen to play instruments as well
what the hell , we do various tasks
i'm such a—gritty spitter , treating rappers like kitty litter
i use you as a shitter , then i bury ya ass
i'm that rolling stone popper that holds the chrome proper
roaming known dro coppa , international seeds
i'm that importer , exporter , send quarters , get quarters , tradesmen
blazing on sax an' them tweeds !
i be that unknown nobody , so gully , flow nutty , no money
i just fucking rap cuz the shit's fun !
the deadly whi - pper snapper
steadily - ripping - up - rappers
better - be - getting - them - clappers
'cuz the only way to beat me is , with guns
i'm gifted , i'm lifted , i spit shit that's wicked and vivid
ridiculous spittin' i could do it for hours , yo - -
the stamina's bananas , you bamas can't handle this
scandalous grammar , yo , watch your crew get devoured , wow !
and i don't give a fuck if it's meaningless ;
saying dumb shit to the beat , beotch i fiend for this
i sense squeamishness
on behalf of ya little baby girl team
big wax , the world screamed
in shock ! when my hits came out
cuz they ain't seen a cracker this flavorful since rittz came out !
and they hating cuz my clique's getting its name out
while they try an' figure out how to get the shit stain out
they reputation , i stand by ready and patient
pounce out and horrify you like i'm freddy - and - jason , in fact !
it's so lethal when i spit at these people
that they just cast me as the lead in the next saw sequel
tall people feel short—when i spit for sport ;
on ya face like different sorts of zits and warts
i'm sipping quarts of jager , with all sorts of flavor
east coast cat , now run cali like schwarzenegger , yea !
i slam dunk on you crazy chumps ;
fuck ya chick after she made me lunch
skeet skeet on them lady lumps
so many , of my kids on her fucking face shit reminds of the brady bunch , wow !
i'm guess i'm always buck wiling ;
big wax , motherfucker , loud never silent
clever rhyming , better - than - ever timing
i'm specialist , make this rap shit seem effortless
i'm sick and tired of these whiny - ass bamas
little tykes go home to ya mamas
ya late for ya curfew , i may have to have to hurt you
wax , i spit sick , like them asians with bird flu !
put ya mask on , wax is on
these wack songs they get back to norm
we strapped bombs on our chest - -
and run into the station on a hijack
turn the music industry to motherfucking i - raq !
blowing up , jihad - ing the game , rap's saddam hussein
oh my fucking god i'm insane , i just
spit fury till my vision turn blurry
so sit back , relax , while i make his - tory , yo !
world life , i'm absurdly trife , i burn mics
head turns like jersey 'pike , it's big wax
with that hot shit that ya lust for
send a demolition crew over to mount rushmore
and have 'em blow it up , and replace it
with a big - ass statue of my face kid !
'cuz i'm a landmark , you a damn mark
say my name three times and end up , with the sand sharks !
mister lover making all the fly bitches stutter
cuz wax ain't afraid to go down like system - of - a
tell ya sister/mother dunny i'm about this
wax , i put my motherfucking money where my mouth is !
that's why i'm so hungry , 'cuz i got no money
but i won't stop 'till i'm on top like tony dungy !
but 'till then ? i re - main a lab rat
it's that's more - talented - than - you dude you mad at
and every crap cat , wanna take a stab at
me and herbal's formulas , but i'm warning ya :
leave the practice alone , you can't achieve this
skills like these was developed in the fetus !
it's in the genetical data contained , it's in the cells , in the blood
circulating in our veins , which allows us to create and recreate in our brains
and you just can't fucking do it ! so ya'll haters ashamed , i'm saying !
it sounds strange people thinking i seem high
crazy people are off it , labeled as
it sounds strange , people like wax , you seem high
me and herbal t be the musical genii - - why ?
'cuz our style is different from yours
and you ain't really never heard this type of spittin' before
we keep spittin' till you shittin' ya drawers
keep spittin' some more , till there's nothing but piss and shit on the floor
they're like : caution ! wet floor , i bet you're
ready to ex - plore , a new career path , get your
resumes together get the never - say - never
rapping's ok , whatever , but you'll like telemarketing way better !
the uniqueness , leaves you speechless , we do freak dance
like b - more bitches up at the preakness !
cuz me and herbs we got that crazy ish
and if you want some more of this , you gon' pay me biiiitch !
you want some more , you can pay me bitch
big wax , herbal t , got that crazy ish...