verse 1 :
flow chilly im illy my bitch from sicily
jersey shore shit don't know her name but she kissin me
i literally walk up in the club and kill an enemy
my apparel is moncler , we don't waste no energy
patron , clicquot , we ain't moving perico
you fucking with a cold nigga yeah below zero
and i don't save no money baby i am no hero
and i don't save no bitch so i ain't
mad you let my man go
cool grey surface the earth , they serving purposes
i am killing every rapper here serving hearses
no matter who you go and get , i just u.s. open shit
serena asses everywhere gambling my poker tips
red berry cheri got your bitch all in the mood
so we nicki minaj , guess it's better if it's two
i do ; i do. i'm married to the money
i just got finished sinning
but i'm in the church on sunday
hook :
dammit ! i'm cold ! i'mma need a mink on
i'mma kill a rapper ; they gon' need a tombstone
i'ma need a bitch , no matter if she's luke warm
i'mma need her brain ; she gon' get her school on
cold nigga : alaska !
i blast off in your girl : nasa !
she believe everything i say : pastor !
i hit her then i get ghost : casper !
i'm cold ! yeah nigga , i'm cold !
i'm cold ! yeah nigga , i'm cold !
i'm cold ! yeah nigga , i'm cold !
i'm cold ! yeah nigga , i'm cold !
verse 2 :
bonjour , bonjour , bumpin bon jovi
read the verse in genesis cause my momma told me
man who ? y'all nosy , y'all are so ginobili
ice cold , ice cold , the polar bears know me
feelin' real fresh today
don't believe in yesterday
and i'm 'bout my cheese jack
you can call me monterey
keep these haters at bay , man : mandalay
and i'm ecstatic cause my cousin got a job today
told him leave that weed alone
but to each his own
and every bar of mine got a shot of cortisone
put the booth in a funeral home
and i'mma kill a local rapper if they
put me on they song
income tax season
i'mma spend it all in polo
only if it's purple
and it doesn't have a logo
yeah a nigga cold , even in hell's kitchen
leave it to cliff lee
we ain't buyin' what you pitchin' motherfucker
hook