yeaaaaaaaah ! ! ! we got another one , buck ! ( uh - uh - uh - uh - uh - uh - uh - uhhhh )
we got another one ! ( like a ro - o - o - bot ! )
yo drew waddup man ? !
let's go...
errybody wanna rap , everybody wanna sing
errybody do their thing like a motherfuckin ro - bot
when the show stop , whatcha know about
how to go about - this
errybody wanna rap , everybody wanna sing
errybody do their thing like a motherfuckin ro - bot
when the show stop , whatcha know about
how to go about - this
seems like you can't sing or rap these days
without autotune in the back these days
well fuck that ! i got somethin to say
with brown blunts , green weed and the smoke is grey , see ( heeeey ! ! )
the best to do it was roger troutman
nah shorty , t - pain didn't come out then !
i was about ten , had striped adidas
raised from the back in the days , all types of leaders
now , i'm like dang , they sound the same
buck voice is original , he authored reigns
dr. j , barry white , whoa !
or barry manilow , the flow like dag he nice
so , keep that original flow
that " bucktown " , duck down , that shit you know..
huh , and i don't flip no o's
2000 - and - right - now , when i spit they know
this ain't a diss to nobody's art
cause afrika bambaataa really gave it a start
you go back in the history of rap man
and you'll see classic jams like planet rock and pack jam
go online , look up kraftwerk
everything we doin is past work
we already wore that hat , those pants and that shirt
so do you man if that works ! !
but we really here to talk about all the copies
cause when it comes to hip - hop , we the orthodoxy
cats poorly copy , copy sloppy
in that section , young people should not be !
there used to be a time , when you were writing your rhyme
you observed the rule of no bitin
no imitatin , no hate and no fakin
we started breakin , so we could stop fightin
get enlightened - i battle you , you battle me
the crowd judges the originality
it's not about a salary
it's all about describing the reality that's grabbin me accurately
i can't rap - ( pass me the program )
i can't sing - ( pass me the prograaaaam )
it's so sad to me
kris , tell 'em more why it's like a factory , actually
hip - hop is the new urban faculty
a function of collective mental anatomy
you cats got it backwards , you say real is wack
and the fake shit , that's good !
well , keep on fakin ( we'll just keep makin )
joints like these ( to keep the spot shakin )
buckshot ( krs )
we f ( r ) e ( s ) h - fresh !
( uh , uh - uh - uh - uh - uhhhhh )