i'm a hit you a strike
i'm a spit you the mic
i'm the real , ugh , you a sike
i'm the only one who get it done and do it right
see each and every night i got a plot for another plan , buckshot
nobody can rock like this brother man
other than you being my friend ? you a foe !
i'mma be the wind in the end i'mma blow
i ain't never been a square cuz' i think outside the box
fifteen years my partner is dru - ha
listen i'm on a mission this is my tom to cruise
this is not a movie this is real life moves
i don't wear sneakers to sneak i wear shoes
i mean shows i wear them out when i walk on tour
i never got booed because i don't believe in ghosts
i believe in being successful achieving the most you know ?
i'm better than you
no matter what you do man i'm better than you
you good at what you do but i'm better than you
no matter where you come through i prove i'm better than you
listen the bottom line i'm better ( i'm better ) i'm better ( i'm better ) i'm better
i don't care if it's a solo or if it's a crew
listen to what i'm saying i'm better than you
you know i'mma win , cuz i'm the one
and i don't slip , cuz i don't run
i'm off the hip , until it's sprung
i foresee the win , told you that i'm the one
and whether you spellin' it with the o - m - w at the top
i leveled it from the go , i'm with double - do on the knot
if i'm coming through on the hop , you adjust to the back
winner's circle all alone , i'm accustomed to that
uno breed and you know me and what this ink do
september 29th is your date due
homie , regardless what city i'm in , i'mma sell those shirts
and i do this through the pressure like my elbow hurts
king me , provide you , if your memories beside you
then they pigeon to skyzoo , for kickin' that monsoon
my home team is the logo the greatest created
great ace while i'm shakin' the pavement jumpman you get it ?
they stuntin' so i pose like i sold out my shows
you call in , i'm called to do what i do i'mma do it til i'm old , i'm better
more clever with the letters and you know that
i'm better than whoever's embedded up on your throwback
i'm better i promise
check out how i prove it
goin' off on tracks and makin' better sounding music
so when i create rhymes , rewind and take time
i'm bryant when i ride the baseline
" is promise that live ? "
he's probably that guy to rhyme and revive the fab five , i can't lie
i'm part canadian so i'm cold
but i'm part caribbean so i'm told
when i go in on tracks i bolt
cuz' i'm from the home of the raps' and skydome i know
you can say what you want but i'm better than y'all
line em' up watch how fast my competitors fall
sean price , upper echelon rap
you kiddin' me , get rid of me ? that's never gon' happen
excellence my performance is outstandin'
your negligence leave you out in the cold stranded
bars and hooks , baby the boy fly
when i kick raps lyrically , i am muay thai
omg , lol smiley face
? ? ? ? you can't see p
mj in his prime , i am king
all star rappin' for real when your hip - hop sing
yeah , i guess i'm the best at it
let you score on purpose so the lost'll be less tragic
how i do when i don't have a clue but i do know this part
i am better than you