you know , story of the hood
and , it gets a little rough
but , i can't fail
i gotta keep on going
keep on going little homie
i know it's fucked up , trust me
run dmc and shell - top adidas
both on fire , i couldn't afford neither
on easter , my three piece suit
that i wore 24 , sitting ( ? )
well , mom's had a hell of a way
and pop's up in heaven today
my combination
made me sell conversation
i couldn't sell crack , no time for wastin'
break dancin' was hot and i was a dancer
squish to the beatbox and now i'm the man cause
when the chicks here brrrr , stick 'em
they think that i'm on and wanna get with 'em
even when i was young , i peep rhythm
that they weren't worth most of the shit we give 'em
yea , life like heads or tails
ain't fair when we take off our land as well ( ? )
you had to have props to be able to grab the microphone
not anybody could have did that
it's the big dreamer
( ? )
joey high rolling the riff raff
the flow is wrong in - tact
in - fact it's overflowing overseas
don't believe me ? get your buoyancy
get your boy in sync
the flow got buoyancy , them pro - era boys in sync
rap's drinking a poison ink , across the loud noise ( ? )
i face l's but i'm the best out in the rink
just to think , these rappers like fighters
the mike tyson i acquire is not retired
nor tired
to attract ends is required
and i don't punchlines - i punch liars
he's the element of fire , old man
been running this shit before i was a grown man
but i owe part of it , word to my home man
i'mma see you again when i get back to the homeland
cleaning up my act , not another episode of them soaps
doing it for show , scrubs , watch them getting old
covered in such , drive - by the sun with a low ( ? )
third album wheel of fortune when i bought those o's
and every other letter when i chose
to finish my sentence when i wrote
nothing but bars as these boxes get filled
i'm plaxi with the cops , ( ? ) real
as the nazis got killed
paradoxes surreal , the apostles reveal
tryna stay up out the ( ? ) so we all know the drill
they might offer you deals on the real
a sequel for suspects that won't talk and won't squeal
that's the code we live by so the rules still apply
and the truth i abide , i choose not the lie
need a new alibi , after a while they won't have use in the trap
i'm sick like i flew in the nile , while you dudes in denial
you are article and my crew be the now
yea , that's newly announced , yea my crew be renowned
you the student , run out when it's truancy around
fly !
beast coast !
no joke !
tell 'em how we get down man
pro - era the bucktown man