you always gonna have people who don't believe that you're really good at what you do , you know
and that's probably more so because they haven't figured out
how to be good at what they know , or don't even know how to do it , you know
so , you know , that’s just what it is , you know
every level you reach you gonna come against obstacles
and you have to combat those obstacles in order to move forward
it's almost like you're playin' a video game , you know what i mean
and then the prize is your sanity
word
ha ! ! ! ( “come on with it” )
shhhh ! ! ! ( “come on with it )
( “come on with it“ ) ha ha ha ha ha
( “come on with it“ ) ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha
( “come on with it " )
( “me and you , gettin' it on , don't even go there " )
( “come on , come on with it " )
( " once i bring it to you , you won't be safe nowhere " )
more levels , more devils , diesel
airin' out the stage like a neville , brother
leave you , dot on your face
for no good reason at all we in a bad place
ha ! hip hop is separated , by the nice and the nice not
underground and i'm ice hot
what rap nigga my age still keep the mic hot , ha ha !
couple hip - hop butterbeans
big sluggers move with me it's a gutter team
i love women who love hardcore who know the boom from the bap
o.g.s could still fill a room when he rap
mic blessin' in a recession is food givin' back
to occupy labels that moved it in wax
now , here come bumpy on a premo track
to represent hip hop from where we go back
ha ha , crack !
“come on with it”
“me and you , gettin' it on , don't even go there”
“come on with it”
“cause you know what we got to do”
“come on , come on with it”
“me and you , gettin' it on , don't even go there”
“come on with it”
“once i bring it to you , you won't be safe nowhere”
i let the beat keep breathin'
while i spit life to you heathens
you in the wrong place , to be real
reasons , i usually don't speak corny styles like that cause i'm too seasoned ( word )
how you ballin' , sendin' links tryin' to get on you stink
mc's don't give a fuck what you think
fuck rappin' if it's beef i hit up brinks
and put that kind of paper on your head to make a lot of killers link
now think , wouldn't you rather keep it music
then to lose it all cause of music
i'm sure that's not how bambaataa wanted us to use it
now move it before i lose it
and i'm in it for the long haul , bars
like lifers in a long hall , bond
my life rockin' mics i raise the bar
phased 'em , dazed 'em and blazed 'em all
scorned !
real nigga cinema , the future's a top feature
who's favorite mc , is the bronx teacher
flow's long around hooks so the words reach ya
joe jackson on you michael ass niggas beat ya
now " beat it " before i pull this tito , and shoot you in your ego
it's front page news read it
my style is to barker over beats
like travis i'll bark 'em , grrrr spark 'em
overwritten flows and shit
like overflowin' toilet bowls and shit , the game is a mess
beef ain't really over with
the only way for me to get over it , is to aim at your chest
i rock with a dj , who sets the tone
plugs in two twelves and a microphone
and i don't stop rockin' the beats will keep rockin'
as long as the streets are heat then keep coppin'
poppin' !
word up ! salute to hip hop ! mc's and dj's !
culture strong as ever , bumpy knuckles , dj premier
salute !