feel me , i bet you've never seen a nigga that get raw like me
gun in your face , put niggas on the floor like me
who go to war like me ? flip a whore like me ?
put the squeeze on rap competitors like me
get less and make more like me
hunt a nigga down like the predator like me
keep the macs in the drawer like me
how many niggas really raw to the motherfucking hardcore like me ?
it's bumpy knuckles baby , i got lyrical styles forever
my endevor is to smash you punk motherfuckers
i do it to young niggas , old niggas , rock niggas , soul niggas
scared niggas , bold niggas , since '89 i told niggas
i'm still ripping with this timeless shit
while you niggas spit that offbeat rhymless shit
my life is full of hard times and shit
so all i rhyme about is whooping niggas asses and crime and shit
who got the hardest mc style ever created ?
( bumpy knuckles baby ! bumpy knuckles baby ! )
who got celebrity status and it's still underrated ?
( bumpy knuckles baby ! bumpy knuckles baby ! )
who got them two hot nines that be black and nickle - plated ?
( bumpy knuckles baby ! bumpy knuckles baby ! )
and i blow a nigga chest out to keep me motivated
( bumpy knuckles baby ! bumpy knuckles baby ! )
i spit the murder one verses for them thugs that be thuggin'
freddie foxxx be bussin dem slugs at who be bugging
i get it everywhere that i go , thug loving
cause it's fatter than star jones and rosie hugging
i've been lyrically inclined since i thought about a rhyme
plus i knew the only thing i couldn't kill was time
so i started a long ten - year climb doing mine
while them fake niggas stay in a rush to stay behind
bum py , i spit the flames til the mic's set afire
i'm a fighter not a crier , don't care who you hire
kill your street team , burn your flyers
niggas need jacoby & meyers for being liars , now feel me
calling major labels , tell 'em bumpy knuckles is in town
tell 'em don't send no rappers out or i'm a gun 'em down
it's the king of the underground sound , get ready for the industry shakedown
yo pete , break it down
yo get the fuck up out my face , b , i'm an mc
not some fake - ass rapper kissing ass at the gavin
asking how can he be down , i make impact
like the four - pound slug ripping through a nigga cap
i guarantee that , now here's a fact
niggas ain't selling records , let alone a key of crack
you stare at me too long , b , your ice grill will melt down to water
and i check you like i check my daughter
now turn it up , it's the pit amongst mutts , huh , i'm off the chain
off the pen or off the brain , i bring it to you niggas
like i'm fucking insane , huh , you heard it pop
now you snitching like colin fergueson at comstock
you ain't a thug , b , i'm rougher than rugby
the real niggas tolerate you , but the thugs love me
bitches in every city want to hug me
a nigga would rather shoot his fucking self before he ever slug me