what the fuck made it ok , for these soft - ass niggas out here
motherfucking soft - ass niggas out here
yea ! !
what you knocking in your tape - deck just my property
unknown forces think they stopping me
here's some information ; i'm god's child
meat , bones , blood in veins
and i bust til i can't mix , mud and brains
someday i may be punished for the shit that i do
so crack the gates of hell , i might slide through
but i ain't staying i need to pay a visit to the man
that took my baby brother from the palm of my hand
i'm a menace to the public like too many bee's
overcome by rappers who puff too many trees
so i stand out like a white cop in harlem
with two rusty ya means , that's what i call 'em
i'm a giant in a field of mice
with gortex & spikes , giving r & b rap niggas short life
you wanna dance with a underground puffy
without niggas around me that might wanna bust me
sometimes i'm like a white man don't trust me
sometimes i'm like a black man thinking like a white man
all you niggas dis - gust me
fuck who you are i don't care who you are
i'm the roundest nigga down here , square who you are
you want drama , you can get it !
*scratch* and premier's down with it baby
there's not a problem that i can't fix
all i need is my two four - fifths
and if you niggas wantin trouble
i sure hold it double and i only aim straight for the brain
it's the preem and bumpy
bringin ya pain
bringin ya pain
bringin ya pain
it's the smackdown fuck the rock and all that
i smack niggas down who think they all that
all you rap niggas cat fight , just wanna be seen
in the magazine , lip twisted lookin all mean
i got a heart like mean joe green
i run niggas down and got paid for it , since sixteen
i'm a addict , b , this thug shit is like nicotine
and i can't stop smoking , i can't stop smoking
i'm like rakim with muscles , no jokin
if niggas try to disrespect my melody i gun for the felony
there's a whole lot of questions that really need answers
like ; who the fuck told you that your rhymestyle was hot ! ?
you know where biggie died ? who bust that shot ?
why is sammy bull still living and where the fuck is pac ?
it's a rat race , niggas don't wanna see me rich
catch twenty - two , niggas don't wanna see me flip
cause i'm billy danze , billy graham , lil' fame
jesse james , manson and dahmer , i love black bitches
i'm a night time nigga , day riches
i won't even call a woulf for you niggas
i bring gay bitches it's like order and take - out
you know you gon' get it
*scratch* and premier's down with it baby !
if i die today or tomorrow , i got no regrets
i'm like the cigarette before cancer - hard to forget !
i'm start to the finish i don't like reason
cause niggas don't negotiate it's all about thieving
tired of proving that i ain't leaving until i'm done
put my last mic in my casket and then i'm one
raps arithmetic , wild like spofford back in '86
rushing towards for the guards , bussin for the gods
you better get your camera out flip the moving mural
that don't carry one gun , i do that shit in plural
yo preem did niggas think that i was a fake now
after the shakedown still ain't catch no drama , when panchi had beef i passed the llama
and told my nigga holla if it get thick , i'm there like mama
sunshine and rain , put time in pain
like a too tight cartier watch diamond frame
duke signed his name got caught up in his lyrics
now he's ray charles bustin his gun , blind in aim
i'm the black bentley azure with the bullet proof doors
with the two overhead cams peddle to the floor
i'm never satisfied in rude war
like a 350 pound nigga on an aeroplane , i want more !
*scratch*
" it's 'bout to be on "
you want beef you can get it
and premier's down with it baby !
*scratch*
" it's 'bout to be on "