you know it's always crazy to me to see how , much monetary value
you know underground hip hop has lost , in the last ten , to , fifteen years
you know , when the fans , you know , wanna get or take your music for free
and feel like you know i got it already why should i buy it ?
you know , that , that's , that's detrimental to the artist number one
but more so to the culture , it's , it's detrimental to the culture because...
you know when somethin ain't worth nothin , who feels they wanna pay for it
you know what i'm sayin ? and...it's hurtful
not just to the artist , but to the culture
you know , that's , that's a war , we're fightin a war
and the war's against ourselves....crazy
we - we - w - w - w - we - we - w - w - w - we are at war !
we - we - w - w - w - we - we - we - w - w - w - w - we are at war ! ( bumpy knuckles baby ! )
we - we - we - are - are - are - a - a - a - a - a - are - are - are at war ! ( ha ha ha ha ha ! )
we - we - w - w - w - w - w - we - we - w - w - w - w - we are at war !
i spit the g style verse , in my prime
i'm still primin , gangsta , with my rhymes
while y'all niggas act twenty one
i stand firm as a o.g. plenty guns
and more smarts throw darts , i'm built on bumps and bruises
bump loses is what y'all losers news is
but i got a different forecast you bastards
i'm well trained of keepin it blasted
got knowledge from muhammed nur , pure for sure
and shorty dogg pumpin shells , through your door
hands up like the party is rockin we in your pocket
cause with all this free shit it's time to stop it
i used to beat a bootlegger to death
now i got to send a legal letter , i think the fans ought to treat me better
these rap niggas say , bump ain't a top five
well fuck you your top five and their slut wives
w - w - we - are - are - are - are - at - at - a - a - a - a - at - at - war !
w - w - w - we - we - are at - are at - are - a - a - are - at - war ! ( yeah ! ! )
w - w - w - w - w - w - we - we - we - we - w - w - w - we - we are at war ! ( word up ! )
w - w - we - w - w - we - w - w - we - are - are - are - a - a - at - w - war ! ( word up ! keep rockin ! )
i'm at war with the foulness that looks through browsers
these ip killers i wanna crack their snousers
log on ! now everybody wanna be philisophic
well let me fill you with a realer topic
everybody love hip hop , or sayin they do
so i make it , with premo and play it for you
and while your sittin their eyes closed lovin the feelin
your man on the laptop stealin
that's like a kick in the groin piece , the fan thief
the soundbyte , somethin just don't sound right
so now you makin excuses like " i'm a fan
and i deserve to pick fruit from the tree "
yeah ! well y'all keep pickin , i keep fightin
you keep stealin , i keep writin
and real niggas do real shit , in hip hop
like sayin what the fuck it really is , and not bitin
w - w - w - w - w - w - w - w - w - we are at war ! ( rock on ! )
w - we are - are - are at - are at - are at - are at - are at - w - war ! ( y'all know what it is ! ! )
w - w - we - a - a - are at - w - w - w - we are at war !
w - w - w - we - we are - are - are - are - are - are - w - w - we are at war !