touch it , bring it , pay it , watch it
turn it , leave it , stop , format it
see , now you know who the god be
back runnin' the city and you know who the squad be
flipmode , bitch , look see ain't nothin' changed
now i'm back with the remix with the queens of the game ( turn it up ! ! )
when you see me in the spot , you niggas better respect it
y'all already know where i rep , ain't no reason to check it
and i know that you ain't fuckin' with me , just for the record
so instead , i'mma let mary j. blige come and set it
maybe you can guess who it is ( uh huh )
mary j. blige , i'm 'bout to handle my biz ( uh huh )
i'm on my grown woman , still i rep for the kids
in every hood , and all my peoples doin' a bid ( turn it up ! ! )
now you know who's really the queen , deliver the mail
seven hundred thirty thousand , first week of my sales
the haters plot and they watch , lookin' all pale
while i'm on a yacht , overseas , doin' my nails
now he sittin' there lookin' stuck
he thinkin' cause he spent a little dough i'm 'gon fuck
if money ain't a thing , i'm sayin' let a bitch know
type to empty an account , how far you willin' to go ( turn it up ! ! )
now he hopin' on the jet , he ain't wastin' no time
told me all expense paid anyplace i could find
hit the islands in the winter , trickin' all on his dime
ain't a shorty in the world pussy better than mine , they wanna
touch it , bring it , pay it , watch it
turn it , leave it , stop , format it
i'm jinglin' baby , go 'head mami
don't i look charmin' , put your lips up on me
kiss it , touch it , good , yes i wish you would ( turn it up ! ! )
you like to see me when i dip , baby , dip
don't it look like i got beyonce's hips
lookin' like i could be like nia long
boy , you smokin' that cheech and chong
i know it feels like i been gone for a minute
but i'm back , chinchilla ice on with a fitted
everybody talk money , everybody gonna run
with that bowl of bread smaller than the arm of a midget ( turn it up ! ! )
and you know i'm doin' my thing , it's blue in the ring
if you had it like this , you probably do it the same
but you won't , cause you broke , all you do is complain
after the club , i'mma put a few in the range and let 'em
touch it , bring it , pay it , watch it
turn it , leave it , stop , format it
five boroughs of death , you don't understand
i got new york city in the palm of my hand
now i could make a tight fist and let it crumble ridiculous
or i could smack the world with a new york nemesis ( turn it up ! ! )
i got staten island on my pinky , queens on my thumb , dude
the bronx on my middle finger screamin' fuck you
rock ice in manhattan so there's the ring finger
you know i had to keep brooklyn on the trigger finger
swizz is the monster , x is the beast
fuckin' with bus , everyday is a feast
stay off the streets , i'm tired of talkin to y'all niggas
i'm a stick a fork in y'all niggas ( turn it up ! ! )
when i hit 'em man , that truck come get 'em man
fucked up how i did 'em man
ain't no remorse for the corpse , truth is
can't i.d. the body , nigga toothless
touch it , bring it , pay it , watch it
turn it , leave it , stop , format it
you see me , you love me , the streets declare me god of the hood
you niggas is watchin' and wishin' you could
be claimin' the throne the way i got it , lock it mu'fuckers
what's good , you tryin' to stop it , i'm wishin' you would ( turn it up ! ! )
cause then i'm glad to hit you with the fact that the god is immortal as spit
the way i be doin' historical shit
in case you and your niggas act like you ain't know when i'm informin' your click
i take your bitch while i'm performin' my shit
touch it , bring it , pay it , watch it
turn it , leave it , stop , format it