ken : well i should have you hooked up next week
chance : it's all good or whatever , i can wait 'til my birthday. i uh -
ken : no , no , no , no. i told ya , i know you need it now , so next week i promise you i'll have you hooked up , ok ?
chance : oh , alright. i just wanted to say thank you for everything. for the computer , the t - shirts , and all the other stuff
ken : you know , chance. let me tell you something. you know , i could never be more proud of anything in my life , you know , than i am of you and what you've done. chance , you have done remarkable and wondrous things , so you don't have to tell me thank you for anything. i'm supposed to do this , that stuff for you anyway , and ya know , just keep doing what you're doing. i am very , very proud of you. just keep doing what you're doing , ok ?
chance : thank you , love you
ken : alright , son. love you too , take care
chance : bye bye
thanks for coming guys
'member sittin' in class the first time listening to dilla
everything's good
rubbin' on yo chin , sippin gin , margiela brand chinchilla
everything's good
my manager backpack packed with packs of cigarillos
and some fruit snacks , and some killer's
phone numbers on speed dial call them save monkey guerillas
everything's good
i ain't really that good at goodbyes
i ain't really that bad at leaving
i ain't really always been a good guy , i used to be thirsty thievin'
runnin through purses even persons leave em hurtin' bleedin
i ain't really help the helpless
i used to be worse than worthless
now i'm worth hooks and verses
i'm good like books in churches
harolds and hooks and churches
everything's good
see my name when you google search it
use a card when i make a purchase
everything's good
but i knew it was fly when i was just a caterpillar
that i'd make it even if i never make a milla ,
when i meet my maker he gon' make sure that we chillin'
and everything's good
i ain't really that good at goodnight , i ain't really that bad at sleepin
with bad bitches , put them aside , i used to be thirsty creeping
now i'm out working evenings birthdays even tuesdays wednesdays thursdays weekends , rehearsing verses , murdering merch and events
damn it feel good to be a gangsta
and it feel good for me to thank you
put money back in your bank account
off of songs i barely could think up ,
cause a lot of songs niggas gon' make up
make sense , but they never gon' make a sound
i'm better than i was the last time , crescendo
thanks justin , lending them pencils
mr. menzies , mensa , chris minto
the time i beat chris on nintendo
nanana hey hey , good intro ,
remember jacket shoppin' after listening to thriller
remember the first time you heard this through and thought , " damn that's that nigga. "
everything's good