" damn ! "
( blow up... )
worldstar before rap , you already know that
so fresh prince they about to bring the show back
listening to kilo , weekend cost a kilo
hair so long , i'm about to bring the fro back
phone call gotta say " moshi moshi " ( moshi moshi )
girlfriend actin' all wishy - washy ( wishy - washy )
it's your birthday , make it earthquake
fell in love with a nigga like a mermaid ( daddy , i love him ! )
that's a first date , nobody think about it , worst case
best case , we the front page , 10k on the first day
yeah , mothafucka , take your phone out
to record this , ain't nobody can ignore this
i'm more or less a moral - less individual
making movies with criminals , tryin' to get them residuals
when it all go crazy , when i hear that action , i'ma be scorsese
my nigga hold it horizontal man , be professional ( worldstar ! )
worldstar , worldstar
worldstar , worldstar
my girl ain't bad , she more like evil
when i'm lookin' in the mirror , how fly's this negro ?
she on hollywood and vine
thinkin' that she hollywood on vine
makin' movies with her friends all the time
showin' off her ass , that's a net twerk
but i saw through it like a wet shirt
drive slow cause you might swerve off it
still eat and the hate so salty
put shrooms in my roommate's coffee
and got more likes than a white girl talking
more hits than a fight comp
where they fight cops 'til they stop , when i heard shots
watching dude drop from a glock at a— ( shots fired )
let me flash on 'em , we all big brother now
lil' sis , let her run around
money talking , you know the sound—brrrr
money counter—brrrr , ak—brrrr
cell phone—brrrr—hello ?
" yo , bro man , check out that video i just sent you , man. this shit's hilarious , man. it's like this kid , man , he got like—he got like hit on the side of the head , man , he's like freakin' out
like , it's like— "
we don't wanna be on ( worldstar ! )
and all i wanna be is a ( worldstar ! )
we don't wanna be on ( worldstar ! )
and all i wanna be is a ( worldstar ! )
we don't wanna be on ( worldstar ! )
and all i wanna be is a ( worldstar ! )
we don't wanna be on ( worldstar ! )
and all i wanna be is a ( worldstar ! )