i transcribed this page so that i could have all the annotations that i'll make on it , in one place , as opposed to using the genius web annotator.
questions ? hit me up if you need help with anything at all. if you're a contributor and want some mentoring/coaching , i'd love to get you started. just pm me.
if you just want a few pointers , i'll happily look at your annotations , or if you just want to talk about music or life , that would be awesome too ! i have a lot to say , and i enjoy a good chat. i always respond within 24 hours guaranteed , and will help you out with any genre of music.
if you already signed up for an interview on this page , but want another chance to talk about yourself , send me a pm and i'll do a private interview with you. it'll still get transcribed on genius , but just under your own name , since users are only allowed one interview on the genius users page , per year.
if i rejected your annotation , it's nothing personal. just keeping up with genius's protocol. check this out if you want to get a feel for how to start annotating. feel free to message me if you have questions about why i rejected your annotation.
if i deleted your annotation , again , nothing personal. i was most likely just going through old tates and deleting them because genius has changed its standards , and what used to fly , doesn't anymore.
thank you to wandāwaisu for making me editor.
2017 genius interview with kydd karma.
find the official video for the interview here.
find my editor introduction here.
read my pre - april fools' day thread here. ( which didn't go over very well lol. )
power. it lies underneath the fingernails of the human race , initiating volatility among even the most ascetic of creatures. it reaches deep into the inner most parts of our souls , incessantly beleaguering our minds until we give in , with the price to pay being the abandonment of everything we truly care about. some will stop at nothing to gain even a small percentage of it. once it has resided within us , it will spread like wildfire , burning our common sense , and turning our sanity to embers. the extremely vigilant will conquer its wrath , but naivety and stupidity will result in death.
i'm high on life , blazed from the california sun , and drunk on annotations. i also probably have one of the longest bios. i update it almost everyday. i'm most likely updating it as you read this.
favorite female vocalist : taylor swift.
favorite male vocalist : hopsin. ( and i'm proud of it ! ! )
significant dates and facts :
5 - 20 - 2016 : first activity on the site.
10 - 1 - 2016 : first real activity on the site ( a.k.a. when i actually knew what i was doing ) !
11 - 25 - 2016 : hit 5 , 000 iq.
12 - 2 - 2016 : editored
12 - 17 - 2016 : hit 10 , 000 iq.
1 - 1 - 2017 : hit 20 , 000 iq.
1 - 5 - 2017 : hit 25 , 000 iq.
1 - 23 - 2017 : hit 50 , 000 iq
1 - 31 - 2017 : gained 100 followers
2 - 14 - 2017 : hit 75 , 000 iq
2 - 20 - 2017 : gained mediator role
3 - 18 - 2017 : hit 100 , 000 iq
artists i've annotated : eminem , taylor swift , bad meets evil , tech n9ne , b.o.b , t.i. , brotha lynch hung , yo gotti , gucci mane , jarren benton , russel dickerson , t - pain , boys like girls , alicia keys , skylar grey , thi'sl , daya , hopsin , lil' wayne , da$h , avril lavigne , hailee steinfeld , halsey , and plies.
i also write rap lyrics and poems. some of my other favorite music artists are eminem , tech n9ne , lil' wayne , meek mill , hailee steinfeld , chris young , brotha lynch hung , kelly clarkson , t.i. , halsey , 2 chainz , jarren benton , florida georgia line , cole swindell , b.o.b , alicia keys , jake owen , tyga , big sean , and demi lovato.
i used to have my facebook link here , but i realized my real name is something not everyone can handle. let's just leave it at that. i am madkol. you can however , find me on instagram and twitter. if you decided to look at my twitter page , no , my real name isn't max word.
if you simply can't get enough of me , click here. wondering what my username means ? click here.
oh yeah , and here are my favorite songs by hopsin and taylor swift :
" baby's daddy " - hopsin.
" long live " - taylor swift.
sidenote
here are some extra facts about me that didn't really fit in anywhere else in my bio :
i hate running.
i'm an excellent ping - pong player.
( intrigued by the link ? well , click on it then ! )
and yeah , i suppose that when i've walked on the beach before , it was rather enjoyable.
me :
see the difference between me and you is /  you think there's no difference between me and you9 - 1 - 1 i'd like to report my ceiling missing