six figure .. ( nigga ) remix ( * " go , go , go " - scratched in background* )
woo ! ( ok ) , young gunnaz ( ok )
c and neef ( check ) ( big face ) that's right
( big a leo ) uh huh
right p , bird game , holla
can't stop , won't stop chingy and the gunnaz
cause we , we get down baby , we get down
girls , the girls they love us
( say what )
( look she right thurr )
( man she right thurr )
yup , it's only right that we make it a remix
young gunnaz and chingy just to give it a little twist
next generation , you better stay focused
young'ns before they time and you already know this
ball 'em , never call 'em , kick 'em out before the mornin
it seem like once you done , they start drawlin ( aight )
you never have 'em , so you cuff 'em , when you grab him
( * " go , go , go " - scratched in background* )
i treat 'em all the same , even the bad ones
gold magnum , rose gold chain , force your aim ( ok )
four four magnum ( check ) , tell c and p when they done better pass 'em
i be laid back , smokin bags , playin madden ( that's right )
you know we tap 'em , middle room , back room
living room , bathroom , send 'em home , cap 'em
you got it , it's nothin i had 'em , you can have 'em
c and neef we the streets , gunnaz be the last one ( ok )
man i can't stop , won't stop
girl , quit actin like ya can't pop
on the drop to the flo' , i move crowds like i moved hop
in '94 on the block , heffers on my jock
you wanna know , it's official when i step up in it ( in it )
you wanna party , let me get the yg's ( yg's ) , and we a be thurr in a minute ( minute )
maybe chickenhead with it
i'm in the authentic get it boy jersey , g.i.b hat fitted
run and tell the world we did it ( did what ? )
copped the boxed up benz , range , and got both of 'em kitted ( woo )
ching - aling worldwide ( worldwide girl )
player and a pimpin , you never seen my thorough side , uh ( uh )
cause the girls , the girls they love me ( love me )
you know i stay +fresh to death+ , like +doug e.+ ( doug e. )
i steps in the spot , these cats they mug me ( mug me )
got dranks and drunk so many at the clubbie , dtp
( " go , go , go " - scratched )
now neefy and chris we can game any chick ( uh huh )
one had to pay a dime , pay her no mind ( nah )
it's quite absurd , just sayin the right words ( that's right )
i like nice hurr , tits , nice curves ( yep )
gettin that dough , smokin on the best dro
shorties catch everything everytime i let go ( okay )
i get it poppin and let 'em finish the rest yo
and when i'm lookin for a girl it's what i check fo'
( " go , go , go " - scratched )
need me a chick , that'll see me squeeze the fifth
go to court plead the fifth , never leave me for a check
put the visa on the whip , overseas they get the bricks
bringin all that cake , that's what i need for you to do
i'll be heated if you screw , bring it all back straight
roc homie , we pop homey , drink it all back straight
better warn me , baretta on me , baby all that hate
will lead to you losin all that weight
holla at ya , boy
( " go , go , go - scratched )
whoa , whoa , whoa , whoa , look at those hoes ( where they at ? )
cz ( where they at ? ) , ( where they at ? ) kb , yeah
whoa , whoa , whoa , whoa , look at those hoes ( where they at ? )
( big cheesy ) ( where they at ? ) ( where they at ? ) uh , yeah
disturbin the peace
whoa , whoa , whoa , whoa , look at those hoes ( where they at ? )
i know luda's here , hey yo what up ? ( dtp )
yes , yes ( r - o - c ) , yes , that's right
i see him ( smellin good ) i see him
six figure ( * " go , go , go " - scratched )
( remix )