chill..
we could just smoke
we could just chill , we could just smoke
you know !
yeah , yeah
uh
get your fine ass in that water , baby
don't get all bougie , don't get all crazy
roll that doobie , but don't get lazy
show them boobies , you sexy ladies
i get it , i get it , it's monday
whoa , get it together one day , but why wait five days for friday don't worry 'bout my name
i'm the motherfucking man
nigga , you should ask around , south central the town
home school , it be crenshaw
to my blood niggas , nothing against ya'll
i got love for you all , but no love for the broads
so if i am in your plans , hope my dick is involved
come on
sexing us all , but she waiting on a ring like she expecting a call
i'm setting the bar
hating niggas like " he the man forreal ? "
silly motherfucker , doesn't cancer kill ?
how is that for real ?
sit back and chill , cody macc is here
i'm trying to make it rain in that sunny weather
trying to get more change than armageddon
picky now - a - days , if you ugly , uh - uh
i like older hoes , cuz they fuck me better
it's cozz , nigga
that's c - o - z - z , mr. always - holding - 40 - oz
or a oz of the og kush hash push that ones back , just that , fuck crack
what's that ? you don't understand what i'm trying to say ?
i'm first place , runner - up about a mile away
how this nigga got side hoes ?
and he ain't even got no main
nigga
cuz i'm the man , you should ask around
i'm the motherfucking man , you should ask around
i'm the motherfucking man , you should ask around
niggas scared to get on tracks , cuz i lays it down
man , you should ask around
i'm the motherfucking man , you should ask around
niggas scared to get on tracks , cuz i lays it down
cuz i'm the motherfucking
i'm the motherfucking man !
( yeah , uh )
spazzin have some
about to have a asthma attack
well , half is that
then the other half is both my hash , in fact
bumping acid rap , i tries to cadillac
never understood why cats had to rat
i had the explorer , i had to trash that shit , never got ass in that
grade - a grass , homie pass it back
it's a $5 minimum , 3 , but you hit it once
tired of the ignorance , that's why i feel kin to rip
mass of the innocents , citizen giving kids sweet lines
cinnamon sedatives interested in women ready to get it in
i ain't stupid , i really do this
i wouldn't fuck with music if i found it useless
already confident the 40 boost it
i found a flow that can make you lose it
soulful ruger put the bullets through ya' , lyrically shoot ya'
and if i lose it , i'll grab mama's gun and erykah badu ya'
hip - hop's savior slash intruder
niggas act like they knew ya' , as soon as your loot up
nigga got tux , but never do suit up
smoking weed and acting a fool never really bothered me
i just wish that my moms could see that..
cuz i'm the man , you should ask around
i'm the motherfucking man , you should ask around
i'm the motherfucking man , you should ask around
niggas scared to get on tracks , cuz i lays it down
man , you should ask around
i'm the motherfucking man , you should ask around
niggas scared to get on tracks , cuz i lays it down
cuz i'm the motherfucking
i'm the motherfucking man !
ask around
motherfucking man , nigga ask around
it's the motherfucking man , nigga ask around
holla at your nigga , man i'll be in town
motherfucking man , nigga ask around
ha , yeah
ask around