at some point , whether or not black folks should use the word or a derivation of the word ending in 'a' - that's a black conversation , and white folks and anyone who isn't black , i think , should just basically stay out of that conversation and let black folk deal with it. we have to recognize , that for us , there's a history , there's a context and it's not our job to help black people reclaim the word. i've heard white people say that " we're gonna help 'em reclaim the word as a way to fight ! " if you want to fight racism , march into a police station
everybody in my city pushing keys and that's all these kids see
if that's the only thing they hear then that's
the only thing they'll be , we call it swag , swag , swag
we call it swag , swag , swag
the homies is busting slugs , the women is shaking ass
the white girls call us nigga and
we just sit back and laugh and call it swag , swag , swag
we call it swag , swag , swag
i am no preacher , bitch i'm a teacher
more like a thinker , dreamer , believer - pick one
a thousand albums came out last year and i ain't get one
cause these boys looking like man - tan
i make hits like grand slam
never had a problem keeping up
these boys songs sound weak as fuck
i ain't thinking about easing up , i'm going hard
til my lease is up and my time will be creeping up
it's only right that i tell 'em ( tell 'em )
don't buy into everything that these rappers are selling ( selling )
thinking that they winning , but really
these niggas failing your people
and need to feeding evil to the streets who made you
raised you on great food , my mama didn't raise no dummy
i'll never let a motherfucker think for me
tell a bitch that its 'bout to get fugly
'bout to hit the game harder than some then some rugby
is anybody on the next level with me ?
i'm hearing niggas dissing god , y'all think it's witty
i ain't laughing , we don't play in mississippi
even when i was broke , selling my soul wasn't tempting
let a white cop shoot a black kid
you'll see a few tweets , that's it
he'll march for a minute , that's it
get a new outfit and a dance like this :
cook ! swag ! woo ! cook ! swag ! woo !
black kid dead and ain't nobody mad
they won't speak the truth , these niggas been scared
call my flow the pudding , the proof's in there
i say the shit they say i shouldn't , i ain't never cared
i been everywhere , took game , spit it , and left it there
i brought a couple of slugs to yo hood , pray i don't leave 'em there
i hope that you don't give me a reason , double dare
i'm hard to scare , i'm what they fear , a black planet , starts here