today , i took the familiar 1 train uptown to lincoln center. i say familiar because it’s a journey i’ve done numerous times since moving to new york a little under 7 years ago. the first time , if i recall correctly , was to see the nutcracker , the second , a puccini opera that was being screened ( with subtitles ) outside of the avery fisher hall in the summer of 08.
today was a different reason. it was the open to the public memorial of lou reed. advertised as “no speeches. no live performances , just lou’s voice , guitar music & songs – playing the recordings selected by his family and friends.”
i first thought that i had gotten the date wrong , until i heard the rumblings of “pale blue eyes.” i followed the sound into the courtyard of the lincoln center.
there , amongst the trees , and huge glass windows of juliard , speakers , blasted out lou reed songs , from album to album. i walked through the center.. and felt heavy.
i’ve listened to lou reed my entire life. that’s not to say that i’ve been the biggest fan my whole life , in fact , in all honesty i only got “obsessed” and really valued how much his work meant to me around 5 years ago. i ordered a book online containing every lyric he had ever written , i would go sit in washington sq park and listen to “street hassle” on loop and read the lyrics as if reading a dictionary/fiction/non - fiction all at the same damn time… trying to soak up new vocabulary , new meanings.
i’m very vocal about reasons i live in new york. reading “please kill me” when i was 13 is at least 75 per cent the reason. as the young lad in essex england these things casted a huge beautiful shadow/light over me , as i was beaten up , spat on , called a fag etc etc etc or whatever… as i fantasized , and read about circles of inspiring humans. i aspired to be like them.
phillip glass in particular , is someone i’ve always looked to , creating his best music the older he gets. these strong minded people , aren’t just people , which is probably , like lou reed why they feel eternal… and not pigeon holed into a world where “oh you’re not 18 ? we won’t listen to your thoughts” ( which is strange when you think about it because i’m pretty sure 9 times out of 10 if i had the choice to talk to a teenager about life or a 75 year old ma , i’d choose the elder , although i get it , innocence and lack of structure etc yeah yeah , i get it i get it… ) they’re cultural institutions that helped forge strong mentalities i hold true today.
" why do you make so much music ? ! " well , why not ? absolutely nothing bad can happen in the world from someone trying as many things as they want , and pushing forward in life… living , doing whatever it takes to be happy. why be sad ? no one wants to be sad. i’m not disregarding tragedy , or sadness when i say that , you must understand. i’m just simply stating , i don’t want to be sad. people like lou reed kept pushing forward , never stopping , never relenting , putting their happiness , and the happiness of people they love at the forefront , obviously so be it ti the disdain of others , but there are ways around that of course of course of course.
my friend adam sent me an article a couple of days ago , it stated that the greatest asset that the beatles had in regards to their success was their arrogance , and that usually.. at age 18 or so , we realize certain things “aren’t possible” and reality sets in , but that never happened to them… they believed they could do anything and everything.
they were right , we all can.
i walked through the lincoln center courtyard. i thought about my life , where i’m at today , a couple days after an album , that feels like i’ve worked on my whole life , is released. i’m in new york. i’ve been in new york.. for so long now , yet no time at all. i’m here. lou reed is dead. a focal point for the reason i’m even here is dead. people die. a couple weeks back , i found out that somebody i love , so very much , more than anyone could ever know , my entire life , my world. is seriously unwell. it pains me. i want to fall down , buckle over , every second of the day , with this thought in my mind. it’s felt like i’ve been walking amongst an earthquake ever since , my foundations , which i thought were so solid in life have been disrupted , but this was my mistake , because nothing is ever certain , and that’s why we have to keep going , and do what makes us happy , or at least work towards what makes us happy , no matter how impossible , or hard it may seem. why do we fall out with people ? it’s so silly. i’ve fallen out with people over such stupid things in life. i’m sure we all have. does it matter ? really , think long and hard. does it matter ! ? it’s silly. solange , i love you. you’re a talented beautiful soul and meeting you has changed my life. sky , i’ve known you for so long. i have no ill feelings for you , i only wish you well , and hope you find happiness and don’t rely or worry about what people think of you , because no matter what we do in this world , someone somewhere is going to knock you down and have a rebuttal. but that’s life , we make ourselves happy and those around us.
i burst into tears. i walk towards the corner of the public library and look off at the trees. i cry for 30 minutes straight. i think about lou , i think about the person i love , i think about everything i’ve gone through to get to where i am today , i think about time , time time time. what a crazy thing time is. our biggest asset , out worst enemy. i don’t want to waste anymore time. it’s time for me to leave. i see phillip glass arrive , with a tear in his eye. time is the strangest thing i’ve ever known. wtf. i walk to the 1 train , and go back downtown.