this is not the burial , it's the resurrection
hey kids gather 'round ( all around the world )
it's dj muggs , with wyclef ( yeah , all around the world )
aha , i got a story to tell ( all around the world )
check it out , c'mon
what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ?
for god so loved the world , every man packs an m - 16
( uh - huh ) says the boy to the fiend
what do you mean ? huh ( uh - huh )
what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ?
for god so loved the world , every one packs an m - 16
i wanna wake up from this dream
( i wanna wake up from this dream ) check it out
i caught the bullet , i was stubborn like a mulet
drink white russian. game ? russian roulette
fly continental six o'clock in the mornin
briefcase full o' cocaine on my way out , i tipped the doorman
jumped into the cab said , " hail mary , full of grace "
yesterday communion was the mafia's reunion
confessed to the priest , eve ate the apple , i ate the peach
slept with vanity , sold my soul to robin leach
devil music in my ear , no fear , i'm pumpin' def leppard
slow down , here comes the narc' with the german shepherd
i got the plan , man , meet me in the van
i got this kid from the sudan bringin' tecs from iran ( uh - huh )
what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ?
for god so loved the world , every man packs an m - 16
says the boy to the fiend ( all around the world )
( uh - huh ) what do you mean ? what do you mean ?
what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ?
for god so loved the world , every one packs an m - 16
says the girl to the fiend ( uh - huh )
so in the streets , the product must be clean ( uh - huh )
five - eleven , the young one went to heaven
yo with the gun to his head ; yo he was already dead
sunday mornin in court , the judge got wyclef confessin'
" yo , i murdered steve austin , " now i'm wanted by bionic woman
women bring you more miseries like that movie
stress go to india , smoke hashish with ghandi ( uh - huh )
my bills of rights is to make sure you're alright
superman left the gang , cause his weakness was crips - tonight ( bing )
godfather got the cottonballs to his cheeks
pig couldn't fly straight so you die in your sleep
i stay awake only to see nicodemus
the young'un got murdered , the day was the sabbath
what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ?
for god so loved the world , every man packs an m - 16
what do you mean , says the boy to the fiend
why we killin' for the green ?
what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ?
for god so loved the world , every man packs an m - 16
says the girl to the fiend ( all around the world )
i wanna wake up from this dream
i know this drug dealer , who drive a black beamer
dreadlock cut off once by this girl named delilah
pretty little dancer , voice like tina turner
chickenheads are you a virgin ? yeah right , so was madonna !
s - s - sinner , sinner , seek the master
if not , feel the explosion from the day after
bit by the vampire , worked for the mobster
two to the head - and now you swimmin with the lobsters
we got'cha got'cha , set up in oklahoma
you caught a bad one like a kid catchin pneumonia
so storyteller , what's the moral of this story ?
live reality and don't get caught up in your fantasy
what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ?
for god so loved the world , every man packs an m - 16
says the boy to the fiend ( all around the world )
aren't we all human beings ? ( uh - huh )
what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ?
for god so loved the world , every man packs an m - 16 ( m - 16 )
but the dream.. is still for green..
( so ) so we die in the steam
( what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ? )
this is how it is around the way , y'knahmsayin muggs ?
wyclef.. and it don't stop
refugee camp , bing !
( what do you mean , john 3 : 16 ? )