yeah yeah
we gon' send this one out , to all the niggas
that want beef , that got baby teeth
why you can't eat little faggot
that primo shit , razzy kazzy , golden chyld , yaknow...
it's the r - ah - a - s , k - a double s
eject the airbag , wreck a nigga's bubble s - class
what's comin next , lets mash
get so high walking i'll catch jetlag
if it ain't hennessey and o.j. homie miss me
keep my hairline down to the nike sign crispy
spit be , strictly mini - me bin laden's
mixed with 16 men with life in the pen , ridin ;
gangsta - fuck how many records you sell
get put on the missing milk carton in xxl
and it's nothin , let's double the dare
dick so deep down ya bitch mouth i'll cum in her hair
guns and ones in the air , niggas with stripes
shootin kites , posted on low - rider bikes
gat named russel simmons got blessed in good night
you done fucked up like cripwalkin by suge knight
" that's what happens when you reach for what you can't feel "
" i be the " .... " wild golden child "
" come on come on yo "
" ask ya crew if i'm nice , they all say true " ..
" that's what happens when you reach for what you can't feel "
" i be the " .... " wild golden child " ..
" the baddest flow " .. " niggas know " ..
guess i'm a rap nigga , cuz homeboy , it's a wrap
commit a driveby with the music expressed there , and then toss the gat
hop on the red eye to nyc though - d&d linked with primo
and i'm hungry , so i'mma take what you got
throw up a dub , spit at the camera like 2pac
my rap style is sheek like two l.o.x
word on a few blocks ; my technique's too hot
i repeat , do not get it twisted
get ya head a brick or " park " at 106 bitch
then catch me exprayin a halo , with a immitation j - lo
.. yaknow - haters lay low
who the only west coast nigga to air out kay slay mixtape tho' ?
( rassy ) mo' dirty , sc - 430
steer with my knee , eatin a plate of beef curry beyotch !
i pop my collar , pop pistols , and pop ecstasy
boricuas call me papi when they pop they pee
used to pop - lock and lock and watch
pop locks and bugularize spots
pop wheelies on the red and chrome huffy
graduated to suzukis - hot soda pop or pop bottles at sky sushi
ask me what's poppin ; most likely ya collar bone
ever had that feelin when you're by yourself you're not alone
with big brother , and big brother see you
i'm hard - headed , my dick look like r2 - d2
mini - me too - speed through in the v - 1 - 2
c - arson style , know how we do
all money is legal , dead pres and green eagles
you funny style like bernie mac , rappin like beanie sigel
golden child of the west , don't know how to act though
kicked off the up in smoke tour for scrappin with staff pro
" that's what happens when you reach for what you can't feel "
" i be the " .... " wild golden child " ....