uh huh , uh ! ! !
yo preme look what happened when the game got sloppy
introducin the lone ranger the kimosabe
the horse is the big gun , the ten gallon tracks
the hood cowboys with the ten gallon raps
rockin acg boots and baseball caps
i agree this ain't assimilation of the do you
this the shit that sha said to get used to
gang starr foundation's the tree , we branched off
sha and i just waited our chance to blast off
year round's in possession of w - m - d's
blaq poet , nick , khaleel the nyg'z
i'm makin dollars out of pressure my pipe's are intact
don't believe me , ask yo' bitch , boy , now back to the track
these recordings be important not responsible for drama
like sarah palin , joe biden , mccain and obama
man listen , we be on a life or death mission
get paid like tuition , or caged up in prison
one time for ya mind two ghetto politicians
three for all my niggas locked down in the system
( n ! y ! g ! )
they said new york fell of , who bringing new york back ?
i'm like , " where we went ? what part the game is that ? "
we've been here the whole time nigga , anxiously waitin
in the streets paper chasin , preme testin our patience
now stop the presses , listen up this is not a lecture
more like a message with a flow that's as hot as peppers
pop to kill 'em , only way you can stop this villain
i'm sick wit it , couldn't kill me with amoxicillin
i've been the illest since ill kid operation rat'
the suicide though , i never contemplated that
then that's a wrap , turn your pages to '03
chapter nyg'z , panch' is my co - d
no " i " in team homie , picture me solo
seen what happened to tony ? what he did to manolo ?
there go that new york giant , back on his shit again
seen with +wolverines+ and they wasn't from michigan
y'all niggas listenin ? y'all can hear a lyrical
rap shit don't work find us , in tennessee
lookin for bucks , seeing if they still ten a key
n ! y ! g !
" we appeal , to those that's real " - heather b 'my kinda nigga'
" practice freedom of speech and refuse to hold back " - pitch black 'revenge'
" motherfuck what you say "
n ! y ! g !