na na na na na na na
oh ooh oh oh , oh yeah !
here we go !
when i'm going through you seem to know just what to say
to turn it all around and put a smile right on my face
to me you are a blessing and i so appreciate
how you change negative to positive and brighten up my day
and whenever i get weakened , lose my will to carry on
i just look at you cause you give me the reason to be strong
if it wasn't for you , i just don't know where i would be
so , tonight i'm gonna celebrate your love for me
cause...
it's people like you
that make the world go round ( oh , yes it is )
it's people like you ( oh , yeah )
that make the world go round ( make it go round and round and round )
whenever i was cold , you just had to keep me warm
and you were my shelter in the middle of my storm
and whenever the mountains came crumbling down on me
then you out of nowhere lift me up and set me free
and whenever i thought that i could not go anymore
girl , you came into my life and you opened up more doors
and now i don't have to look no for other women when it comes to love
cause girl , you are gift sent down to me from up above
it's people like you
that make the world go round ( hey ! ooh ! )
it's people like you ( it's people like you )
that make the world go round ( oh yes you do... )
( these days )
it's so hard to find
someone truly truly real
in a world so divided
where love should not be based on color
girl take my hand ( girl take my hand )
and tonight we gon' show the whole wide world just how to dance , oh !
a 1 , 2... a 1 , 2
let it blow ( blooooow )
you feel good , i feel good
so hot !
now we're gonna step around the world tonight and step into the light
it goes a 1 , 2 , 3... here we go !
step step step to the side
step to the left and step to the right
step step step to the side
step all night and step to the light
step step step to the side
step to the left and step to the right
step step step to the side
step all night and step to the light
step step , round and round
we gon' step all night to the funky sound
step step , round and round
we gon' step all night till the roof come down
step step , round and round
we gon' step all night to the funky sound
step step step round and round
we gon' step all night till the roof come down
it's people like you ( that make.. )
that make the world go round ( yeah , there's people like you... )
it's people like you ( oooh )
that make the world go round ( oh round , round and round we go )
it's so hard to find
someone truly truly real
in a world so divided
where love should not be based on color
girl take my hand ( oh girl just take my hand )
and tonight we gon' show the whole wide world just how to dance , oooooooh !
party people , if you wanna ( yes , we do ! )
keep the world going round and round say
eeeh eh ehe ( sing it now... )
eeeh eh ehe
oooh oh oooh ooh ( say what ? )
oooh oh oooh ooh ( i like that.. )
eeeh eh ehe ( me too )
eeeh eh ehe
oooh oh oooh ooh ( one more time )
oooh oh oooh ooh
ah ! dj cassidy ( whooa ! )
kellz ( oh ! )
na na na na na na
come on !
round and round , we go ! ( come on )
round and round , we go ! ( come on y'all )
round and round , we go ! ( come on )
round and round ( come on y'all )
goodnight everybody and get home safe !