you see i been waiting , waiting on that time
feel me if you been waiting on yours
that moment... is close ( yeah ! )
tired of living day to day like everything is alright...
just waiting on that moment
waiting on my moment
yeah , 2 chainz !
old dude met mom it was on
then he named me over a phone , prison term
live and learn , sippin' syrup with my vision blurred
take this cup of reality , niggas finna err
when you start from the bottom you can see the top
so when you get to it , don't let 'em see the spot
next thing you know you lookin' for a rent sign
upper echelon , bitch we skip line
i remember reminiscing in the kitchen like
i wonder when the braves gon' win it
i wonder when the falcons gon' get here ; pyrex vison
made more than i ever made with dtp this year
tired of livin' day to day like everything is alright
livin like there's one thing on my mind
just waiting on that moment
waiting on my moment
you say you got that oh shit ? hell nah - next time that's mine
long as i stay hustling i'm gon' shine
just waiting on that moment
waiting on my moment
waitin' on my moment...
just waiting on my moment ; bad hoes i'm shonin
time came and i owned it just like lebron james and start ballin
when i touch the block i cracked the block , when i pulled up in that muscle drop
with that roof off and my shoes off on you bitch niggas , rupaul
real nigga in my hood , who everybody gon' root for
cause they see me come from that bottom where everybody get bodied
they told me get em , i got em , now i'm here nigga like yeah nigga
just rolls royce and bugattis and m4's this year nigga
if i don't grind , i don't shine , if i don't shine , then i don't eat
won't eat , then i'mma starve , if i'mma starve , i pull heat
on all y'all bitch ass niggas , all y'all rich ass niggas
cause if i dont make no money nigga , i'm gon' take yo money nigga
livin like there's one thing on my mind
just waiting on that moment
since life ain't promised tomorrow
live it up ! live it up ! live it up !
here before it come this far
give it up ! give it up ! give it up !
i won't - give it up ! give it up ! give it up !
until i have it all , yeah !
livin like there's one thing on my mind
just waiting on that moment
dj drama !
y'all like that ? we gone