yeeeea !
i mean i got to be the hardest , middle name concrete and shit like that , you know ?
i mean thank you for the clapping , i know i'm hot , but you about to witness more greatness
dipset bitch , welcome to hell rell ! ! !
i got the metal pa' , that's how i settle dram ( drama )
eyes " jet li " but i'm afro - ameri - can
i got a foreign bitch , sitting in the foreign whip
she don't speak english but she know how to slob a dick
wrist crazy , neck retarded....yeah i'm flossing hard
stepped my weight up , gave my own boss a job !
yellow diamonds , looking like moron cars
lawyer got in the ring what them cases afford 'em hard
yeah he kept it real in jail , he a livewire
hell rell ? that's the homey , official 5 rider
i'm the talk in all the hood's and every barbershop
they say that boy go hard every bar is hot
so smoke ya haze cocksucker , take ya last drag
you about to die homo and you past fag
crumble up ya rhymes , shoot 'em in the trash bag
ak's and bombs , my niggas hood is baghdad ! ( weeks block )
now you see me in ya tv , stranger
and ya favorite rappers got me in his cd changer
i'm a general nigga , send ya greatest soldier
uzi on the tour bus , please don't pull us over
i got weight , you need yay ? i'm there
and ya bitch mad i won't let her braid my hair
i'm bout to cut that shit anyway , fuck that bitch anyway
feds raided the spot , got another strip anyway
i'm poppin i'm poppin he poppin
so i might as well pull out this hammer and....pop it off
in the club and you drunk and you frontin
if i gotta take the sneaker off then nigga....i'm poppin off
i ain't no tough tony , i ain't no rough ricky
but if you fuck with me nigga....i'm poppin off
hell rell i'm a certified g better ask about me my nigga....im poppin off
in jail bronx niggas is known for popping off
them bricks got moved , yes i can cop a porsche !
rapper's i potty train them , i'll let the shotty blaze 'em
they tryna put rell under the jail...saddam hussein 'em
who the hardest ? .......name 'em
if they don't mention the dude then who the fuck these fans listening to ?
see a coward won't smack you but a gangsta will
i'm hot in the south like dj drama gangsta grillz
see you paying car notes i got gangsta bills
when did you get tough , you poppin gangsta pills ?
i ain't no tough tony , i ain't no rough ricky
but if you fuck with me nigga....i'm poppin off
hell rell i'm a certified g better ask about me my nigga...
i'm poppin off