( yeah... you feel alright ? )
god , goodness gracious
i can't wait to see the look on y'all niggas faces
that boy t nuts , surprised his thoughts isn't chafing
fuck them crackers up at mountain dew them niggas is racist
cabbage was made , critic faggots was shook
so i told 'em that i'll exchange the word " faggot " with " book "
and all them " books " is pissed off and had their page in a bunch
fuckin' attitude switched just like a " book " when it struts
but , i'm a fraud i pray to god when the six triple " book " bashin'
while me and my favorite author's lips tickle
peter parker pick a pack of peppers when the plot thickens
tyler , the creator fuckin' kill you with a popsicle
cold blooded so we rock mittens so they won't find him
not kiddin' keep the tommy on me bitch , i'm ms. pickles
said i seem off , last time that team talked
sick of making niggas cabbage so i took the 'preme off
should've bought some stock in it
( yo it's fucked up , i get it , put a sock in it )
not golf when the little homies don't , wait , let's weigh my options
i bought me a mansion , and bought some attention
ain't give none to hopsin , and dear boyce watkins
why you mad ? it's the slave in me
it's facts boy i'm back like rosa parks least favorite seat
videos , stage dives , popups , they watching t'
while y'all niggas watchin' the throne , the throne be watching me
if you fuck this up
there are so many fuckin' kids right now , listenin' to this guy
get those wings flapping motherfucker !
cause this kid's ready to fucking fly
eenie , meenie , miney , mo , nigga nigga on the wall
rap bars , jail bars , die or shoot a basketball
" tyler the darkskin , arrested in austin "
cops know who i was cause their kid said the show was awesome
tyler , tyler , i swear to , i swear to fuck ! if you fucking...
do not fuck this up !
you have the whole world in your fucking hands
how many leaders in the house ?
well can somebody bring the mirrors out ? i'm getting lonely
likes and apologies and snaps make it obvious
that everybody on this fucking planet lackin' confidence
how many leaders in the house ? ( do not fuck this up ! )
well can somebody bring the camera out so i can film me
t a great director nigga's vision must be blurry
boy i get them epic shots like jaywalkin' in missouri
wait... how many leaders in the house ?
well can't somebody bring my album out so i can hear one
pour me a drink , shit i don't know what to think
cause all these niggas leaning like they forest whitaker's blink
wait... how many leaders in the house ?
see why nobody got they hands up , see that's the issue