mamma had a dream , but she gave it up for me
and my sister raising kids , man that ain't a cup of tea
now she ain't have no cheese , but took us to chuck e. cheese
somewhat of a g , living life so sucka free
told her what i want to be , she was cooler than the breeze
supportive as a beam , cause i knew she had believed
if it were up to me , she'd be treated like the queen
a life of luxury , filled with shiny pretty things
now i was only three when she brought me to the states
my sister only one , crossing borders wasn't safe
what she did was very brave , i think about it everyday
from argentina to mexico , and finally la
yes , she made it really far , someone give her an applause
got herself a job , an apartment and a car
but the struggle isn't over so i keep doing my parts
straight spittin' out them bars that'll get us to the stars
tell me momma , are we there yet ?
yeah , tell me momma , are we there yet ?
tell me momma , are we there yet ?
tell me momma , are we there yet ?
shorty was a ten , she was chillin' with her friends
i was trying to be smooth , but i couldn't pretend
so i walked up with a brew , table , napkin and a pen
told her we should do something , call me when you can
man , after two dates , i got her back in my place
she made the bed shake and my heart beat race
yeah , we were moving fast but either one of us cared
seducin' me with that ass ware , really wasn't fair
is this just good sex or is it something that's rare
feelings do intersect , when you choke and pull hair
are we two single people , or have we become a pair
and to tell you the truth girl , i ain't ready for that dare
but i saw it in her eyes , she was falling in deep
i barely know you and you barely know me
these are common road rules , we should take it slowly
so before you use words like " love " , just let me speak
tell me baby , are we there yet ?
tell me baby , are we there yet ?
yeah , tell me baby , are we there yet ?
tell me baby , are we there yet ?
at the age of fifteen , i was rockin' open mics
killing the la scene , like a scene in poltergeist
young freestyle king , street battlin' left and right
i was quite mean , yeah i thought the kill was nice
i made it my career at the age of seventeen
now almost every year , i travel the seven seas
respected by my peers , and all of the og's
got fans around the world , they be cheering fo' me
when i wake up every morning , man i wonder if it's real
look at what i worked for , everything i built
when i really think about it , it be giving me the chills
cause i'm eating off my music and i'm paying all my bills
i think i made it y'all , i don't need a fucking deal
what the hell am i saying , man i gotta check myself
that's for real , cause when things are going well i get gassed up
that's when i look in the mirror and i ask...
tell me brother , are you there yet ?
young brother , are you there yet ?
tell me brother , are you there yet ?
keep it moving , we ain't there yet