unrealistic , my beautiful addiction ( x2 )
eligh :
she infects my brain like nothing else
an addiction i cannot kick on my own i need some help
i stand on the peer with the fishing rod
and bait , to attract that perfect mate , my health
the tax , in a search , so i sit back , relax
do not need feedback while on my perch
i light my torch and abort that mission
often take it right back up the evening after
misses me , you silly babe
and in the back of my mind you still ?
to an unrealistic i woman in ? ? fate
i grade my effort b+ , jesus
can't save me from these nuts , i'm crazy , baby
take a tip from me stay away from me
cause i'm only out for one thing that's music , lady
now let a shady one night binge ? ? ?
baby just for now you might be just my style
but you're not the one so don't get stuck on the thought
of us cause i'm in love with the dream and
inception implanted by lust supreme
she's ? ? ? ? too and a virgo with a gorgeous smile
and beautiful lips ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
? ? ? ? ? ?
sits so intelligent my best friend and my advices
taken with a grain of salt ? ? ? ?
i adore women and women adore me
you're my beautiful addiction
? ? ? ? ? to these fictions
though it's lust never thought it could mean this much
you're my beautiful addiction ( x2 )
grieves :
i've been living the impossible dream
and found that most of the attention i'm getting isn't appealing
and look , how the hell did you think i would've reacted
to women writing numbers on a napkin telling me i can have it
talkin' up a one night stand with a girl that only sleeps with bands
and baby i can't stand it cause i was never raised to be a rock star
always thought love would be an anchor when i lost heart
and i don't seem to be the kind of type , who want's to pack it up and have that life
but if you ask me right
then maybe i would take that chance
and stop running from the flames to dance
but lately i can't stand it
the fans with the motives to fuck
and all these devil headed women ? ? ? ?
when i ? ? ? to my mama she's askin' me if i'm nuts
and wondering why i'm always associating with sluts
and it hits me , this is not the life i wanted
? ? ? ?
i payed the price i'm gone
and i don't know if i'mma ever find it
but i'll never see the sun until i climb it
i set my sights
you're my beautiful addiction
? ? ? ? ? to these fictions
though it's lust never thought it could mean this much
you're my beautiful addiction ( x2 )