in these deep solitudes and awful cells ,
where heav'nly - pensive contemplation dwells ,
and ever - musing melancholy reigns ;
what means this tumult in a vestal's veins ?
why rove my thoughts beyond this last retreat ?
why feels my heart its long - forgotten heat ?
yet , yet i love ! —from abelard it came ,
and eloisa yet must kiss the name.
dear fatal name ! rest ever unreveal'd ,
nor pass these lips in holy silence seal'd.
hide it , my heart , within that close disguise ,
where mix'd with god's , his lov'd idea lies :
o write it not , my hand—the name appears
already written—wash it out , my tears !
in vain lost eloisa weeps and prays ,
her heart still dictates , and her hand obeys.
relentless walls ! whose darksome round contains
repentant sighs , and voluntary pains :
ye rugged rocks ! which holy knees have worn ;
ye grots and caverns shagg'd with horrid thorn !
shrines ! where their vigils pale - ey'd virgins keep ,
and pitying saints , whose statues learn to weep !
though cold like you , unmov'd , and silent grown ,
i have not yet forgot myself to stone.
all is not heav'n's while abelard has part ,
still rebel nature holds out half my heart ;
nor pray'rs nor fasts its stubborn pulse restrain ,
nor tears , for ages , taught to flow in vain.
soon as thy letters trembling i unclose ,
that well - known name awakens all my woes.
oh name for ever sad ! for ever dear !
still breath'd in sighs , still usher'd with a tear.
i tremble too , where'er my own i find ,
some dire misfortune follows close behind.
line after line my gushing eyes o'erflow ,
led through a sad variety of woe :
now warm in love , now with'ring in thy bloom ,
lost in a convent's solitary gloom !
there stern religion quench'd th' unwilling flame ,
there died the best of passions , love and fame.
yet write , oh write me all , that i may join
griefs to thy griefs , and echo sighs to thine.
nor foes nor fortune take this pow'r away ;
and is my abelard less kind than they ?
tears still are mine , and those i need not spare ,
love but demands what else were shed in pray'r ;
no happier task these faded eyes pursue ;
to read and weep is all they now can do.
then share thy pain , allow that sad relief ;
ah , more than share it ! give me all thy grief.
heav'n first taught letters for some wretch's aid ,
some banish'd lover , or some captive maid ;
they live , they speak , they breathe what love inspires ,
warm from the soul , and faithful to its fires ,
the virgin's wish without her fears impart ,
excuse the blush , and pour out all the heart ,
speed the soft intercourse from soul to soul ,
and waft a sigh from indus to the pole.
thou know'st how guiltless first i met thy flame ,
when love approach'd me under friendship's name ;
my fancy form'd thee of angelic kind ,
some emanation of th' all - beauteous mind.
those smiling eyes , attemp'ring ev'ry day ,
shone sweetly lambent with celestial day.
guiltless i gaz'd ; heav'n listen'd while you sung ;
and truths divine came mended from that tongue.
from lips like those what precept fail'd to move ?
too soon they taught me 'twas no sin to love.
back through the paths of pleasing sense i ran ,
nor wish'd an angel whom i lov'd a man.
dim and remote the joys of saints i see ;
nor envy them , that heav'n i lose for thee.
how oft , when press'd to marriage , have i said ,
curse on all laws but those which love has made !
love , free as air , at sight of human ties ,
spreads his light wings , and in a moment flies ,
let wealth , let honour , wait the wedded dame ,
august her deed , and sacred be her fame ;
before true passion all those views remove ,
fame , wealth , and honour ! what are you to love ?
the jealous god , when we profane his fires ,
those restless passions in revenge inspires ;
and bids them make mistaken mortals groan ,
who seek in love for aught but love alone.
should at my feet the world's great master fall ,
himself , his throne , his world , i'd scorn 'em all :
not caesar's empress would i deign to prove ;
no , make me mistress to the man i love ;
if there be yet another name more free ,
more fond than mistress , make me that to thee !
oh happy state ! when souls each other draw ,
when love is liberty , and nature , law :
all then is full , possessing , and possess'd ,
no craving void left aching in the breast :
ev'n thought meets thought , ere from the lips it part ,
and each warm wish springs mutual from the heart.
this sure is bliss ( if bliss on earth there be )
and once the lot of abelard and me.
alas , how chang'd ! what sudden horrors rise !
a naked lover bound and bleeding lies !
where , where was eloise ? her voice , her hand ,
her poniard , had oppos'd the dire command.
barbarian , stay ! that bloody stroke restrain ;
the crime was common , common be the pain.
i can no more ; by shame , by rage suppress'd ,
let tears , and burning blushes speak the rest.
canst thou forget that sad , that solemn day ,
when victims at yon altar's foot we lay ?
canst thou forget what tears that moment fell ,
when , warm in youth , i bade the world farewell ?
as with cold lips i kiss'd the sacred veil ,
the shrines all trembl'd , and the lamps grew pale :
heav'n scarce believ'd the conquest it survey'd ,
and saints with wonder heard the vows i made.
yet then , to those dread altars as i drew ,
not on the cross my eyes were fix'd , but you :
not grace , or zeal , love only was my call ,
and if i lose thy love , i lose my all.
come ! with thy looks , thy words , relieve my woe ;
those still at least are left thee to bestow.
still on that breast enamour'd let me lie ,
still drink delicious poison from thy eye ,
pant on thy lip , and to thy heart be press'd ;
give all thou canst—and let me dream the rest.
ah no ! instruct me other joys to prize ,
with other beauties charm my partial eyes ,
full in my view set all the bright abode ,
and make my soul quit abelard for god.
ah , think at least thy flock deserves thy care ,
plants of thy hand , and children of thy pray'r.
from the false world in early youth they fled ,
by thee to mountains , wilds , and deserts led.
you rais'd these hallow'd walls ; the desert smil'd ,
and paradise was open'd in the wild.
no weeping orphan saw his father's stores
our shrines irradiate , or emblaze the floors ;
no silver saints , by dying misers giv'n ,
here brib'd the rage of ill - requited heav'n :
but such plain roofs as piety could raise ,
and only vocal with the maker's praise.
in these lone walls ( their days eternal bound )
these moss - grown domes with spiry turrets crown'd ,
where awful arches make a noonday night ,
and the dim windows shed a solemn light ;
thy eyes diffus'd a reconciling ray ,
and gleams of glory brighten'd all the day.
but now no face divine contentment wears ,
'tis all blank sadness , or continual tears.
see how the force of others' pray'rs i try ,
( o pious fraud of am'rous charity ! )
but why should i on others' pray'rs depend ?
come thou , my father , brother , husband , friend !
ah let thy handmaid , sister , daughter move ,
and all those tender names in one , thy love !
the darksome pines that o'er yon rocks reclin'd
wave high , and murmur to the hollow wind ,
the wand'ring streams that shine between the hills ,
the grots that echo to the tinkling rills ,
the dying gales that pant upon the trees ,
the lakes that quiver to the curling breeze ;
no more these scenes my meditation aid ,
or lull to rest the visionary maid.
but o'er the twilight groves and dusky caves ,
long - sounding aisles , and intermingled graves ,
black melancholy sits , and round her throws
a death - like silence , and a dread repose :
her gloomy presence saddens all the scene ,
shades ev'ry flow'r , and darkens ev'ry green ,
deepens the murmur of the falling floods ,
and breathes a browner horror on the woods.
yet here for ever , ever must i stay ;
sad proof how well a lover can obey !
death , only death , can break the lasting chain ;
and here , ev'n then , shall my cold dust remain ,
here all its frailties , all its flames resign ,
and wait till 'tis no sin to mix with thine.
ah wretch ! believ'd the spouse of god in vain ,
confess'd within the slave of love and man.
assist me , heav'n ! but whence arose that pray'r ?
sprung it from piety , or from despair ?
ev'n here , where frozen chastity retires ,
love finds an altar for forbidden fires.
i ought to grieve , but cannot what i ought ;
i mourn the lover , not lament the fault ;
i view my crime , but kindle at the view ,
repent old pleasures , and solicit new ;
now turn'd to heav'n , i weep my past offence ,
now think of thee , and curse my innocence.
of all affliction taught a lover yet ,
'tis sure the hardest science to forget !
how shall i lose the sin , yet keep the sense ,
and love th' offender , yet detest th' offence ?
how the dear object from the crime remove ,
or how distinguish penitence from love ?
unequal task ! a passion to resign ,
for hearts so touch'd , so pierc'd , so lost as mine.
ere such a soul regains its peaceful state ,
how often must it love , how often hate !
how often hope , despair , resent , regret ,
conceal , disdain—do all things but forget.
but let heav'n seize it , all at once 'tis fir'd ;
not touch'd , but rapt ; not waken'd , but inspir'd !
oh come ! oh teach me nature to subdue ,
renounce my love , my life , myself—and you.
fill my fond heart with god alone , for he
alone can rival , can succeed to thee.
how happy is the blameless vestal's lot !
the world forgetting , by the world forgot.
eternal sunshine of the spotless mind !
each pray'r accepted , and each wish resign'd ;
labour and rest , that equal periods keep ;
" obedient slumbers that can wake and weep ; "
desires compos'd , affections ever ev'n ,
tears that delight , and sighs that waft to heav'n.
grace shines around her with serenest beams ,
and whisp'ring angels prompt her golden dreams.
for her th' unfading rose of eden blooms ,
and wings of seraphs shed divine perfumes ,
for her the spouse prepares the bridal ring ,
for her white virgins hymeneals sing ,
to sounds of heav'nly harps she dies away ,
and melts in visions of eternal day.
far other dreams my erring soul employ ,
far other raptures , of unholy joy :
when at the close of each sad , sorrowing day ,
fancy restores what vengeance snatch'd away ,
then conscience sleeps , and leaving nature free ,
all my loose soul unbounded springs to thee.
oh curs'd , dear horrors of all - conscious night !
how glowing guilt exalts the keen delight !
provoking daemons all restraint remove ,
and stir within me every source of love.
i hear thee , view thee , gaze o'er all thy charms ,
and round thy phantom glue my clasping arms.
i wake—no more i hear , no more i view ,
the phantom flies me , as unkind as you.
i call aloud ; it hears not what i say ;
i stretch my empty arms ; it glides away.
to dream once more i close my willing eyes ;
ye soft illusions , dear deceits , arise !
alas , no more—methinks we wand'ring go
through dreary wastes , and weep each other's woe ,
where round some mould'ring tower pale ivy creeps ,
and low - brow'd rocks hang nodding o'er the deeps.
sudden you mount , you beckon from the skies ;
clouds interpose , waves roar , and winds arise.
i shriek , start up , the same sad prospect find ,
and wake to all the griefs i left behind.
for thee the fates , severely kind , ordain
a cool suspense from pleasure and from pain ;
thy life a long , dead calm of fix'd repose ;
no pulse that riots , and no blood that glows.
still as the sea , ere winds were taught to blow ,
or moving spirit bade the waters flow ;
soft as the slumbers of a saint forgiv'n ,
and mild as opening gleams of promis'd heav'n.
come , abelard ! for what hast thou to dread ?
the torch of venus burns not for the dead.
nature stands check'd ; religion disapproves ;
ev'n thou art cold—yet eloisa loves.
ah hopeless , lasting flames ! like those that burn
to light the dead , and warm th' unfruitful urn.
what scenes appear where'er i turn my view ?
the dear ideas , where i fly , pursue ,
rise in the grove , before the altar rise ,
stain all my soul , and wanton in my eyes.
i waste the matin lamp in sighs for thee ,
thy image steals between my god and me ,
thy voice i seem in ev'ry hymn to hear ,
with ev'ry bead i drop too soft a tear.
when from the censer clouds of fragrance roll ,
and swelling organs lift the rising soul ,
one thought of thee puts all the pomp to flight ,
priests , tapers , temples , swim before my sight :
in seas of flame my plunging soul is drown'd ,
while altars blaze , and angels tremble round.
while prostrate here in humble grief i lie ,
kind , virtuous drops just gath'ring in my eye ,
while praying , trembling , in the dust i roll ,
and dawning grace is op'ning on my soul :
come , if thou dar'st , all charming as thou art !
oppose thyself to heav'n ; dispute my heart ;
come , with one glance of those deluding eyes
blot out each bright idea of the skies ;
take back that grace , those sorrows , and those tears ;
take back my fruitless penitence and pray'rs ;
snatch me , just mounting , from the blest abode ;
assist the fiends , and tear me from my god !
no , fly me , fly me , far as pole from pole ;
rise alps between us ! and whole oceans roll !
ah , come not , write not , think not once of me ,
nor share one pang of all i felt for thee.
thy oaths i quit , thy memory resign ;
forget , renounce me , hate whate'er was mine.
fair eyes , and tempting looks ( which yet i view ! )
long lov'd , ador'd ideas , all adieu !
oh grace serene ! oh virtue heav'nly fair !
divine oblivion of low - thoughted care !
fresh blooming hope , gay daughter of the sky !
and faith , our early immortality !
enter , each mild , each amicable guest ;
receive , and wrap me in eternal rest !
see in her cell sad eloisa spread ,
propp'd on some tomb , a neighbour of the dead.
in each low wind methinks a spirit calls ,
and more than echoes talk along the walls.
here , as i watch'd the dying lamps around ,
from yonder shrine i heard a hollow sound.
" come , sister , come ! " ( it said , or seem'd to say )
" thy place is here , sad sister , come away !
once like thyself , i trembled , wept , and pray'd ,
love's victim then , though now a sainted maid :
but all is calm in this eternal sleep ;
here grief forgets to groan , and love to weep ,
ev'n superstition loses ev'ry fear :
for god , not man , absolves our frailties here. "
i come , i come ! prepare your roseate bow'rs ,
celestial palms , and ever - blooming flow'rs.
thither , where sinners may have rest , i go ,
where flames refin'd in breasts seraphic glow :
thou , abelard ! the last sad office pay ,
and smooth my passage to the realms of day ;
see my lips tremble , and my eye - balls roll ,
suck my last breath , and catch my flying soul !
ah no—in sacred vestments may'st thou stand ,
the hallow'd taper trembling in thy hand ,
present the cross before my lifted eye ,
teach me at once , and learn of me to die.
ah then , thy once - lov'd eloisa see !
it will be then no crime to gaze on me.
see from my cheek the transient roses fly !
see the last sparkle languish in my eye !
till ev'ry motion , pulse , and breath be o'er ;
and ev'n my abelard be lov'd no more.
o death all - eloquent ! you only prove
what dust we dote on , when 'tis man we love.
then too , when fate shall thy fair frame destroy ,
( that cause of all my guilt , and all my joy )
in trance ecstatic may thy pangs be drown'd ,
bright clouds descend , and angels watch thee round ,
from op'ning skies may streaming glories shine ,
and saints embrace thee with a love like mine.
may one kind grave unite each hapless name ,
and graft my love immortal on thy fame !
then , ages hence , when all my woes are o'er ,
when this rebellious heart shall beat no more ;
if ever chance two wand'ring lovers brings
to paraclete's white walls and silver springs ,
o'er the pale marble shall they join their heads ,
and drink the falling tears each other sheds ;
then sadly say , with mutual pity mov'd ,
" oh may we never love as these have lov'd ! "
from the full choir when loud hosannas rise ,
and swell the pomp of dreadful sacrifice ,
amid that scene if some relenting eye
glance on the stone where our cold relics lie ,
devotion's self shall steal a thought from heav'n ,
one human tear shall drop and be forgiv'n.
and sure , if fate some future bard shall join
in sad similitude of griefs to mine ,
condemn'd whole years in absence to deplore ,
and image charms he must behold no more ;
such if there be , who loves so long , so well ;
let him our sad , our tender story tell ;
the well - sung woes will soothe my pensive ghost ;
he best can paint 'em , who shall feel 'em most.