sha - boot heal !
a shabba , the world thrill !
and johnny gill
all girls !
x - tra naked !
strip me , strip me
take it off
wanna see me naked , then you gotta say , " take it off ! "
if a strip a strip , you know you gotta say , " take it off ! "
getting x - rated , now you gotta say , " take it off ! "
shabba inna di place so just holler out , " take it off ! "
sensuous emotion , they're gettin' my attention ( because i'm getting )
staring up easy to find the right position ( the world is staring ! )
don't rush , don't hurry now ( girls getting horny ! )
take your time girl , get it right ( girls needing on it )
and no need to accelerate ( i'm telling you )
cuz we can kill the feeling
keep it slow and sexy ( slow )
instant aphrodisiac for the lover man ( on a backway peep )
keep it slow and sexy
tell them say !
man and woman nuh have the same luck
god create the woman dem fi get plenty - ( oooh ! )
food , clothes , and lots of luxury
woman bring the fruit and society
food , clothes , and plenty luxury
can't make love on dem hungry belly
give it up ! give it up ! the everlasting cup
from afar , man a say , " you fat 'til you buff "
girls , them like it when i hold them tight ( big dutty stinkin' shabba ! )
makin' love all through the night ( 12 inches or more ! )
take the time and do it right
cuz we can kill the feeling
keep it slow and sexy ( non - stop babes )
instant aphrodisiac for the lover man ( yeahhhh , no playing.. )
keep it slow and sexy ( and you know what...cock it up ! )
too much movement might hurt the back ( ahhhh )
for the lover man , shabba...
sex is sex , sex is
teach it in university and college
let it be safe , let it be protected
if it be protected , the longer you live
shabba and johnny gill , musically active
if it's music , our backitive
young , black , and talented
to all the girls , we'll be abusive
young , black , and talented
shabba and johnny is superlative
want to see me naked , then you gotta say , " take it off ! "
get myself x - rated , then you gotta say , " take it off ! " ( slow ! )
get myself naked , now you gotta say , " take it off ! "
music x - rated , now you gotta say , " take it off ! "
scream girls ! ( ahhhh ) and then you say....
shabba inna di place and now you gotta say , " take it off ! "
such passion !
i know where that came from
great romancing
can never be overdone
girls , they like it when i hold them tight
making love all through the night
take the time and do it right
cuz we can kill the feeling
keep it slow and sexy ( slow )
girl , go nice and slow , yeah
taking it nice and slow
keep it slow and sexy
'cause , you know what..
a man see the wuk , and a man a bogus
a man a bogus , then fi him bed buss
make a man sign a contract first
woman , them have mind to give up
man , them have the mind to lust
body look ready , man tempted fi touch
some nuh have no money , them pocket , it broke
whisper in your ear and say such and such , girl !
girls !
want to see me naked , then you gotta say , " take it off ! "
johnny x - rated , now you gotta say , " take it off ! "
album , " x - tra naked " , now you gotta say , " take it off ! "
scream girls ! and then you say....
shabba inna di place and now you gotta say , " take it off ! "
anytime mi take it off , a nuh laugh mi a laugh
any woman get it , surely shall talk
japanese get it , the more them want
english girls , i love them to mi heart....