though we gotta say goodbye for the summer , baby , i promise you this
i'll send you all my love everyday in a letter sealed with a kiss
these hoes keep calling , i ain't picking up ( yeah )
these hoes keep calling , i ain't picking up ( yeah )
told these hoes i'll be back around june ( around june )
told these hoes i'll be back around june ( what ? ! )
better yet i'll change my numbers for the whole winter ( who ? )
damn , it's so cold in the fucking winter ( whooo )
these hoes keep calling , i ain't picking up ( what )
damn , i'm so cold in the fucking winter ( yeah )
you was in la marina all summer ( every sunday )
you was up in toxic all summer ( turn up )
now it's getting chilly , that's the fall coming ( whooo )
now a nigga get a call from her
what's up ? how you been ? how was summer ? hotter then
i'm like some bitch stringing me along like a violin ( dumb bitch )
she was too busy hosting , on instagram posting
hashtag #nofilter aka #hofilter
with the innocent face , but she so guilty ( she did it )
now i'm a take her in like a ho shelter ( whaaat )
when there's a few niggas that i know killed her ( whaaat )
4 celtics , knicks guard , you know felton
this nigga in atlanta airtran her , no delta ( haha )
been naughty all year trying to end it nicely ( niiice )
summer hoes turning into winter wifeys
you was in club liv every sunday , you was in kod every monday
just like lil wayne said : “liv on sundays , king of diamonds monday”
oh , you been working out ? ( word ? ) you think i'm dumb or what ?
i know how a winter gut turn into a summer butt
she bartend , he paid for the shots ( for the shots )
budweiser limearita for the thots ( for the thots ? )
hard dick and bazooka , maybe a little hookah
she thinking philippe , i'm think chipotle ( yeah )
i heard bitches commit cyns ( sins ) for chipotle
every rapper in a cypher , every player in a huddle ( whoa )
you really wanna fuck , but you say you want to cuddle ( whoa )
you posting like you balling , but you really in a struggle ( yeah )
your captions be deep , but you shallow as a puddle
turn down for what ?