how similar is reporting the snowden files to indulging in five minutes of self - gratification ? if you don't closely follow the " future of journalism " debates , here's hoping those two things seem pretty damn different to you.
not so , says felix salmon – late of reuters , soon to join fusion , and pretty much the most outspoken follower of those debates : when it comes to journalism , salmon claims , " breaking news is the most masturbatory thing journalists do " .
salmon was talking up the new wave of explanatory journalism sites , like nate silver's fivethirtyeight , or vox. neither site plans to break new stories – they want , instead , to explain the world ( and the news ) through data and analysis.
that's a fine enough endeavor , but salmon goes further : because " readers don't care who breaks the news " , he writes , " chasing after scoops is silly " .
that is wrong , but let's begin where salmon might generously be given the benefit of the doubt : no one , whether a journalist or not , should care – at all – who tweets a news story first. ( that only qualifies as a " scoop " to an insider group of hacks and social media journalists. )
here's something else that doesn't matter : the journalist who gets a carefully - spun political announcement to run before his competitors – by approximately seven minutes , and with minimal outside reporting at that. for a lot of " news " , first means absolutely nothing : what matters is to get it right , to try to move the story forward , or to at least put the news in the appropriate context.
but " breaking " news masquerading as an " exclusive " is not a scoop. a true scoop can bring information to the public that would otherwise stay private. some scoops are huge , and read all over : the wikileaks and snowden stories on which i worked , the pentagon papers , watergate , warrantees wiretapping , you name it – many pieces of hard - earned journalism have changed the world in which we live.
others get less attention , but remain hugely important : revealing a piece of political corruption , finding a hidden story in jobs figures , looking into corporate malpractice and many , many more , from blogs to local newspapers to our fellow pulitzer prize winners this year and thursday night's national magazine award winners.
without this work , explanatory journalists , columnists and even media futurologists are pretty irrelevant. at some point , someone's got to produce something to talk about. salmon may be right that readers don't even care who exactly broke any given story – though bob woodward and carl bernstein may disagree – but that's missing the point.
digging is at the core of journalism. telling stories that need to be told , instead of regurgitating the information everyone can access – that kind of supposed indulgence matters. if anything , it's all the other stuff that's masturbatory. and that's the shame in so much of this new wave of explanatory journalism , and in our twitter - fed breaking news environment : it's as if the nerds building the " future of journalism " forgot the importance of the scoops at its foundation.
collecting and analyzing data is a brilliant way to potentially generate scoops , though : the trend you spot in the figures can prompt further digging , then interviews and outside work , to produce a story that might lead a website , spark a debate or ( gasp ! ) grace a newspaper's front page.
the alternative – to point at the trend and note , in the middle of another think piece , that it's interesting – relies on someone else , perhaps without the in - depth knowledge and experience of the data , to spot and do the work.
vox and fivethirtyeight are both incredibly new journalistic endeavors , if pseudo - journalistic in their experimentation with what journalism means. they may both decide to pursue exactly this course of point - and - 'splain , or some other similar version of it – or they might just not know what they are quite yet.
but make no mistake : there is huge potential for newsrooms with a bunch of writers and developers who have statistical and analytical skills , who are still happy to do the extra work to turn an interesting theory into a real human story. despite lots of recent us media hiring to tap that very potential , there's no established newsroom in the world , and certainly no budding web newsroom in washington or new york , that has fully realized that kind of vision. eventually – maybe even soon – one will.
against that potential , the problem of analysis - without - news becomes clearer : it's a little like visiting a great steakhouse and getting a salad. it's interesting – tasty , even – and it's whetted the appetite. but sooner or later , we're going to want the red meat.