warren buffett letter to shareholders 2012
the news genius community annotated warren buffett’s 2012 letter to shareholders , providing readers insight into buffett’s investment strategy , details about other prominent figures mentioned in the letter , and an analysis about how buffett’s honest admission that berkshire hathaway underperformed the s&p for the fourth year in a row sets him apart.
and , on top of all that , some educated quips were made in the process !
manifesto - christopher dornerover a hundred community members helped annotate the manifesto of christopher dorner , a 33 - year - old former lapd police officer and ex - united states navy reservist who was a named suspect in the 2013 southern california shootings which left 3 people dead. dorner was the subject of what is possibly the largest organized manhunt in los angeles history , spanning four u.s. states ( california , nevada , arizona , and new mexico ) .
annotations on the manifesto shed light on dorner’s references , provide insight into the heart of his message , and break down the meaning of powerful lines such as , “it's not just us , it's justice ! ! ! ”
i have a dream - martin luther king jra classic of american oratory and a defining moment in the civil rights struggle of the 1960s , dr. martin luther king , jr.’s “i have a dream speech” remains of the most historic and eloquent calls for racial equality in the united states.
through annotation , the genius community pointed out king’s references and use of symbolism , provided specific examples of the extreme racism king was speaking out against , and highlighted king’s tremendous patriotic rallying cries and oratory skills.
as news genius aims to be a “wall of history” , the annotated analyses on the speech are not only continually being improved and expanded , but are continually educating the people !
groupon farewell memo - andrew mason
andrew mason , ceo and one of the founders of groupon , sent groupon employees this memo after being fired in february 2013. groupon went public in late 2011 at $20 per share , only to bottom out at about $3 a year later.
over 30 members of the community annotated the document , adding insights about the history of groupon , its ipo , and the subtle references ( aka trolling ) mason makes in his memo. verified users ben horowitz and marc andreessen , early investors in groupon , also jumped on the text and provided fascinating details about historical groupon moments and challenges mason faced as ceo.
the bitcoin bubble and the future of currency - felix salmon
felix salmon’s widely circulated article on what he alleged to be the “bitcoin bubble” provides several instances of how the genius annotation platform can be used to foster debate and educate readers. in the first ever verified on verified annotation debate ( annotebate ? ? ) , ben horowitz and felix salmon exchanged friendly blows on the potential of public bitcoin adoption. felix salmon was at the ng offices ( see pic ! ) when he typed out the following :
it’s just your highly geeked - out world where people have more faith in an algorithm written by an anonymous cryptographer than they do in , say , a national telecoms monopoly.snap.
when a reader asked an annotator to provide a definition of “fincen” , the annotation was updated to include a detailed explanation. news genius community members also clarified how bitcoin’s value is actually created , what the response among government central banks has been , and discussed the scalability of the cryptocurrency.