the background
ben : i said , " why don't we just bet ? " i've read enough of felix's stuff to know that would be irresistible to him.
felix : he's right about that. being challenged by ben horowitz is kind of the high point of my career. so i immediately said yes.
about 2011 , i first started looking into bitcoin thinking this is a bit crazy. and eventually when it reached the dizzying heights of $200 per coin , i published this article saying this is ridiculous , it's a bubble , it's all going to crash and i was absolutely right , it was ridiculous and it was a bubble and it did crash and it went back down to about $5 a coin and i was vindicated and that was the end of that , except it wasn't , because then it went up to a $1000.
ben : it's a very interesting discussion because one of the things about the discussion is that it's one of the few that involves experts in economics and then experts in computer science and a lot of the differences come from the differences in background.
so if you approach bitcoin from a computer science standpoint , you tend to be very bullish. if you approach it from an economics standpoint , you tend to be very bearish. i'm from the computer science side , for sure.
felix : and to ben's point , the computer scientists , at least the ones in silicon valley where ben lives , tend towards the techno - utopian and anarcho - libertarian perspective. they think that technology is going to save the world , it's what evgeny morozov calls " solutionism. "
ben : it's a real computer science breakthrough. this is a problem that we've been trying to solve in computer science since the early '80s , which is : how do you prevent the double - spending problem ?
as a merchant , you end up rejecting approximately 8 to 10 percent of your good customers due to potential fraud. netflix , i think , only accepts customers from 40 countries because of this credit - card problem. and merchants in , like , kazakhstan , they're just done — there's no way they can be online.
felix : i'm skeptical about bitcoin in particular partly because it is a store of speculative value. it's a place where speculators like the winkelvoss twins will come in and buy up lots of bitoins for no reason other than they think they can find a greater fool to sell the bitcoins to tomorrow.
and because bitcoin offers the potential for so much profit just by sitting on it — the longer you don't spend it , the more you benefit — then everyone has an incentive to not spend their bitcoins. and you can't have an have effective payments mechanism if you're not spending the currency.
ben : well bitcoin has gone up so fast now , i'm assuming it won't go up as fast as it has in the recent past as it gets to be pervasive , the price is going to reach equilibrium , it's not going to go just straight up.
the terms
ben : i think it makes sense in the five - to seven - year time frame. it is a big thing to upgrade the the payment structure of the internet if not the world. ...
felix : there's no way that bitcoin is going to be a common payment mechanism in five years' time. it probably will not even exist. it's just going to be a vague memory that in any case , it's not going to be use as part of the deep architecture of payments.
ben : well we fundamentally disagree , so that's what makes the bet so exciting.
felix : let's take a representative group of people and ask them this poll , " have you used bitcoin as a payment for goods in the past month , we could say a week , but let's say a month because i want to be generous to ben. what number , what percentage of people do you think are going to say yes ? let's say 25% , what do you say to that ?
ben : i would say that seems a little bit higher than i would predict. i was thinking more that if 5 - 10% of the people that make payments have used bitcoin , that's a lot of payments.
felix : well it depends on how much they've used it...
ben : but you're saying that it's going to disappear !
felix : to be frank , i think that the answer to who would have won this bet is going to be blindingly obvious five years from now. we're not going to even need to run a poll , it's going to be blindingly obvious who has won.
negotiating the bet
five years from now , in january , 2019 , we'll poll a representative sample of americans. if 10 percent or more say they have used bitcoin to buy something in the past month , ben wins. if it's fewer than 10 percent , felix wins.
ben : if exactly 10% say yes , then clearly i've won. i think we should bet in bitcoin. i would like my payment in bitcoin.
i think a fine pair of alpaca socks is something i do not have and could probably use from time to time.
ben : i will frame them and hang them in my office.
felix : alpaca socks it is. and of course , you do realize , ben , that part of the reason i'm going to win this bet is exactly that everyone who bought alpaca socks with bitcoin a few years ago is kicking their warm feet right now saying " i wish i hadn't bought those alpaca socks , i wish i had just held on to the bitcoin because i would now be a millionaire ! "
felix : i'm looking forward to some warm feet.