how's everybody doin tonight ?
( alright ) ha ha right ? i like that...
" just play our tape , cause.. live for the whole block.. right now "
" cause we get all that.. "
indo , kushed out
trillest nigga linda ever pushed out
never finished college like my brother or my sister
i was in the crib laying on a kush cloud
getting zoned out , eyes red
momma and my daddy said my mind dead
they said i never had a clue , said the bills past due
fuck you , nigga , you gotta remind fred
cause i'm carefree , sucker - free
remember when these niggas wouldn't fuck with me
but now i'm on the screen and these magazines
they be trying to stop a nigga like , smoke something , g
can we get a couple grams ? nigga , hell , naw
unless you come in with the cash , tried to tell y'all
i got you motherfuckers gassed on the smell , dawg
so go 'head and take a hit of what i'm 'bout to sell y'all
i gets high
i get high , i get high , i get high
i get high , i get high , i get high
i get high , i get high , i get high
i get high , i get high , i get high
i get so blowed , i can't stand up
i'm in the bed with elise and amanda
cause in my shows i make them hoes put their hands up
so they came back to my room , they getting rammed up
we trying to slam or what ? because i'm trying to smoke
so when i finish with these swishers i'll be down your throat
and two of y'all , one of me , three of us
should i hit my niggas up ? hell , naw , i'ma pound them both
cause this a one - man job , ain't no need for the crew
two snow bunnies on their knees , what it do ?
white snow in the crib if you need that , too
got some bitches and some bud , nigga , bring that through
i gets high
i get high , i get high , i get high
i get high , i get high , i get high
i get high , i get high , i get high
i get high , i get high , i get high
( i - i - i gets high )
early in the morning , getting high with crusty eyes
rubbing on a mother , well you know it's do or die
hopping off the porch , had to get on my grind
all because the trouble just copped to my nine
back in the caddy smoking swishers with my nigga
make a store run , 'bout to cop out some liquor
burning down basements , face it
run a bus stop , i'm trading hoes , and you know we ain't paying
midwest livin' , oven open in the kitchen
heating up the house where your shit could come up missing
dope fiend tripping cause he just copped a nick
but he say he can’t find it , but it's right in his pocket ( i get high )
all day long , gotta get my profit ( i get high )
just poured a deuce and i'm smoking on the tropic ( i get high )
on a different subject , lights is the topic ( i get high )
cause he talking money so , nigga , just stop it ( i get high )
all day long , getting high on the low ( i get high )
bitch , snow bunny be sniffing that snow ( i get high )
twerking that summer , i really don't know ( i get high )
cause me , freddie gibbs , madlib stay blowed
i get high , i get high , i get high
( i gets high )
hey , are you okay ?
you slobbing , you okay ?
is he okay ?
are you okay ?
he shouldn't have smoked that dipper for real
you aight ?
oh my god
god bless , man