( you know my sneakers foreign , nigga )
yeah {what you heard~ ! }
bigger than life {skrrt~ ! cookin' up ! }
big money poppin' boy {cookin' up ! }
yeah {c - c - c - c - c - c - cookin' up ! }
( yeeeah ) they talking bout me in the trap house ( what you heard )
they asking bout me in the trap house ( what you heard )
they talking bout me in the trap house ( what you heard )
they asking bout me in the trap house ( yeeeah )
what the business is , stay up out of mine ( hah )
what the business is , stay up out of mine ( hah )
they talking bout me in the trap house ( what you heard )
they asking bout me in the trap house ( hah )
...trap house ( hah )
...trap house ( hah )
{coke boy , baby ! }
niggas mad that i went and got my visa ( hah )
thirty on my wrist , had to roll my sleeve up ( whoop )
damn right we rockin' ( rockin' ) , damn right we coppin' ( coppin' )
fly cars we whippin' ( whippin' ) , the fuck boys be plottin' ( plottin' )
purple jolly ranchers ( ranchers ) , chain couple advances ( bling )
wrist and watch blang ( bling ) , blue and white like kansas ( hah )
right side turn wheel ; talk kush , we burn fields ( whoop )
swore i seen the devil on my first mill
had to kill the watch , nigga - - time served
i'm talking +9 , 000 watts+ , nigga - - you ain't heard ?
you know my wardrobe foreign , nigga {m - m - m - maybach music}
you know my watch foreign , nigga...
i talk money , some say i speak foreign ( huh )
whip foreign , watch foreign , bitch foreign ( huh )
told her to dance , and that bitch kept going
cake , cake , cake , cake - - just throw it
i'm a boss , motherfucker ; pull up to the club
just to floss , motherfucker , on the salt , motherfucker
rich motherfucker , all the whips foreign
take your bitch , motherfucker ; suck a dick , motherfucker
i'm the shit , motherfucker - - time to get up off the toilet
this is it , motherfucker ; thirty - six , motherfucker
and you a bitch , motherfucker ; all your bitches know it
hit a lick , motherfucker ; took a brick , motherfucker
rich gang , blaaat~ !
hundred bricks , nigga , like a hundred chips
hundred whips , nigga , another hundred clips
overseas , nigga , on some hundred shit
flip a hundred things , moving on a hundred whips
all the mils counted , peep how it feels
up top , nigga , doing big deals
big chips , nigga , knowing how to kill
on the field , nigga , do this shit and do it real
another flip , nigga , stash the cash
we do this , nothing but some money on me
another blast , nigga - - pussy
curve , swerve , hit 'em with that chopper on me
eleven hundred , flipped eleven hundred
coke boys in this bitch , move eleven hundred
got them whole things in the sand
uptown , filthy rich , rich gang
yeah , yeah
the hardest part about the bid'ness
is minding your own - welcome to the room
all the whisperin' stop ; but you know ?
nosey people get in the face , of real niggas gettin' money
ya feel me ? they askin' 'bout me in the trap house
e'ry block... baby whattup ? rosay
they talkin' 'bout us in the trap house...