montana
that untouchable empire , baby , coke boy
( bad boy ) they say careful what you ask for
cause when you get it , you know what you gon' tell 'em right ?
( we're baaa - aack )
what you say ? i do this err'day , wh - what you say ? i do this err'day
do this err day , do this err day , do this err day , do this err day
what you say ? i do this , wh - wh - what you say ? i do this err'day
do this err'day , do this err'day , do this err'day , do this err'day
( jeremih ) french montana !
( hah... what they talkin 'bout , puff ? )
they ain't talkin 'bout , nothin
this the moment they feel ya , let's get back when i get there
they've seen what it is , so look it down
bad boy , blood line , get up , talk to 'em
i got tats all on my arm , racks on racks in the bank
forgiato on my range , pepsi blue my paint
all these girls be choosy , can't find a bitch who ain't
haters they are ballin' like fishes in a tank
stuntin' with my whole crew , hangin' out the window when we roll up
you know when we come through , make it rain we don't give a fuck
bout what you say , i do this every day ; don't buy bottles , buy by the case
seem like every night my birthday i can't help but get the cake
feel like i was born for ballin' out
live it up and just for fallin' out
montana~ !
tattoos on my neck , half a mill in my car
dream team i rep , just me and my dogs
stray cash in that haircut , sea bass , no lamb chops
met her at the bar , tryin' to get some head shots
62 that maybach , fake jewels don't play that
take off like blake griff , money tall like a6
never hit that red zone , baby i was airborne
hoppin' out that ghost sippin' red dot with that red bone
trunk up in the back , drop the population
and i'm never fakin' jacks , you know i'm poppin' aces
i'mma ball , illuminati bank rolls
suicide lambo doors and two italian taned hoes
yeah , yeah , my mic sounds nice right now
1 - 2 , ayo , pure blood line baby , check it out...
i'm flyin' around and i'm gettin' it like 90 thou in my denim
told a bitch i just met , write your problems down and i'll end 'em
i'm creepin' on a billi , got these niggas buyin' largely
bout to take my la crib and drop that bitch on wall street
peep my watch and hand game , like peach ciroc and champagne
you buyin' jets , i could buy the jets , i ain't speakin' 'bout no damn planes
this passion and pain fashion , matchin' my things catchin'
action from things mackin' , then flashin' my rings captain
twin v's , entire , envy my attire
catalogue , but don't have the heart cause real kings build empires
everything that i said nigga was everything that you saw
i did everything that i claim , you ain't like us cause we ball
( ayo , this the way it lives , this what it is )
( you see it ) i was born to ball , bitch ! hah~ ! ( bad boy )
if you ain't heard you live under a motherfuckin' rock ( coke boyz )
montana ( we baaa - aack~ ! )
we was born to fly baby , still do the same thing nigga
shit sound like i just sold nigga
untouchable empire , bad boy , coke boy
diddy what up ? ya heard ?