i don't wanna hear at that , i don't wanna hear none of that
talkin' to cameras like " what you need ? " and all that shit
fuck that shit , i don't remember none of that shit
where your ass was at , dog , when niggas wouldn’t feed me ?
where your ass was at , dog , when bitches didn’t need me ?
where your ass was at , dog , when niggas tried to run off ?
where your ass was at , dog ? you made me pull this gun out
where your ass was at , dog , you went and switched sides ?
where your ass was at , dog , when niggas spread lies on him ?
where your ass was at , dog , when the bodies came sliding ?
where your ass was at , dog , when i was serving pies ?
where your ass was at , dog , when niggas wouldn’t feed me ?
where your ass was at , dog , when bitches didn’t need me ?
where your ass was at , dog , when niggas tried to run off ?
where your ass was at , dog ? you made me pull this gun out
where your ass was at , dog , when i was in the pyrex ?
where your ass was at , dog , when i was drinking hi - tech ?
where your ass was at , dog ? you came through the projects
where your ass at ? we keep that fully loaded contracts
had her rain dance on the dick , ass jumping
running through the pussy like a nigga going jogging
fuck a little louis , put it in a bitch pocket
put a pic with me on the 'gram , now you popping
where your ass was at when i was trapping in the store ?
had to struggle to get where i'm at and sell dope
jackie chan moves got game in the choke
gas rolling up in the blunt , amoco
12 tryin' come in the spot to open up the dope
burglar bar doors got a young nigga confident
juugin' out the stove and we still bangin' , honest
blowing on the o , yo , we call that ho an onion
man , where your ass was at when we took the city over ?
where your ass was at when all they'd ask was " what's the hold up ? "
where your ass was at when niggas first got the news ?
now your ass around because we’re paying back dues
where were you ? when all the dogs needed help
lawyers and the commissary ain’t gon’ pay itself
where your ass was at when we recorded in the bathroom ?
where your ass was at i take attendance like a classroom
man i ain’t got no choice
cause nowadays i swear this shit done changed up for the boy
i’m self - made , selfish with my women , self - employed
i’ll buy the neighbors house if they complain about the noise
man , where your ass was at , dog , when niggas wouldn’t feed me ?
where your ass was at , dog , when bitches didn’t need me ?
where your ass was at , last winter was the coldest ?
fuck where you was at , i had the 6 on my shoulders
where your ass was at dog , when niggas wouldn’t feed me ?
where your ass was at dog , when bitches didn’t need me ?
where your ass was at dog , when niggas tried to run off ?
where your ass was at dog ? you made me pull this gun out
60 for a walk through , bitch don’t panic
had them bitches fall through fucking like a savage
heard you tryna swim in the ocean no jacket
heard that nigga came through squeezing on a ratchet
heard that nigga came through squeezing on a ratchet
serve a lot of dog food , call you a mutt
where your ass was at dog , when i was on my come - up ?
the reason i’m here today cause i ain't never gave up
where your ass was at , dog , when niggas wouldn’t feed me ?
where your ass was at , dog , when bitches didn’t need me ?
where your ass was at , dog , when niggas tried to run off ?
where your ass was at , dog ? you made me pull this gun out
where you ass was at , when i was trapping in the store ?
had to struggle to get where i'm at and sell dope
juugin' out the stove and we still bangin' , honest
blowing on the o , yo , we call that ho an onion