i fucked this flow
this is my electronic press kit , i hot as some fresh shit
nigga recollect bitch , grow grey hairs , don't stress it
i text message , messages to fuckin' estrogen
she lets me in , i sex her then she sexier than my leather vans
cause i never am purchasing , reimbursing your courtesy
put your body on the curb to work the street , i hearse the streets
heard she sweet , she hershey's sweet but me i'm extravagant
hop on the bandwagon kid , i'm about to tell you some tragic shit
the love is lost and the drugs they cost , in the studio mixing raw
bitches shit in my drawers like you piss in my drawers
nigga my dick's in her jaw
i'm wes snipes with lead pipes , don't dabble with the apple
cause a swagga like mine turn them apples into snapple
fuck the pick of the raffle , king of the castle
nigga , genghis khan mansion , we the marilyn manson
making money in the present , it be safe for my grandsons
african drums for when the champ come , bitch
suicide watch nigga , kill yourself
opposition who ? nigga reveal yourself
how you steal our swag and figure you still yourself ?
splinter cell creeping in this bitch , you couldn't feel the stealth
wolves are prowling , hunger at its fucking best
i'm a beast like the gorilla head that is on my chest
please let me flex , i'm going off i need some fuckin' bread
drugs are green , my bitches white and tonight i need fuckin' head
excuse our swag , i'm tryna tone it down like jenny craig
fresh to death then i guess we looking like the living dead
oh shit , yo bitch , look at how i'm doing you
bitches on my dick but look at me i'm fucking beautiful
niggas tryna figure out , but all i hear in my interviews
is why this so cool ? you niggas are so unusual
wolf gang , point me to a nigga i should prove it to
under pressure , we just stand in the middle like hula hoops
the fortress is fortified ( bitch )
money in my pockets like i'm 45 , hodgy beats recording live
bitch i be surely high and i don't need wings to fly
i'm the air with the pigs , left brain , domo genesis
knock - knock , who's there ? it's me
your girlfriend had a really nice meeting with my dick ( what ? )
i killed that pussy and grabbed that knife
now i got real authentic cheetah print shit ( nigga , you're a liar )
nigga don't believe me , kiss your lady
and boy , you're gonna get them heebie jeebies ?
nigga my dick stay way disease - y , i make it look easy
51 - 50 , i'm off the heezy , you ain't got no fuckin' yeezy ?
( 5 albums , 100 songs , and you ain't got no fuckin' yeezy ?
i bet you got some j - kwon , you ain't got no fuckin yeezy ? )
came in the game like speedy gonzalez , i'm fuckin' looney
see these girls talkin' all that shit ( what ? )
i'm just tryna see some tits ( what ? )
let's get it poppin' like , mc lyte , around some dykes
i'm , out this bitch like hocus pocus
and me and lucas got a couple of pickles
and met up with some bitches , gave 'em cum on their dimples
then my dick went limp so , took about 3 pills of extenzo
now my dick's longer than a 5 door limo
harder than a soft right hook from kimbo on pcp and cilantro
when i'm with your bitch i'm like , " where my dick go ? "
now she think i'm 'bout to eat her whole
enchilada , i gotta lotta that 'preme and i'm paying nada
it seems that i'm product placement but i'm not i'm just fuckin' awesome
yo mama look like a ugly ( fuck you ) loser