got this flight to london , i ain't pop no xans for it
in case you was wonderin' , i ain't even plan for it
i just left l.a , barely caught the plane
fuckin' tsa , swear a nigga ran for it
ain't used to this fame shit
this you - all - know - my - name - shit
me , i'm just the same kid
that fucked around and made it
fucked over my main chick
damn she was the main chick
thinkin' 'bout the game
i shouldn't have played , but i played it
and now i'm missin' your love , i'ma roll up
i'm faded once again , i don’t know where i am
but i just know i'm driftin' far from you
i'm tryna keep my head strong , but my heart
won't just let me grow away from you
don't you know we're driftin' off , driftin' off ?
i know you think that it's my fault for fallin' off
all this hope and disregard , driftin' off
i know you think there ain't no fault , i fall apart
and now i'm missin' your love
i blame it on the distance
why i'm fuckin' with these bitches
these numbers in my phone
a text pops up , she's like , " who is this ? "
you probably got a mistress
probably every week it switches
now is this cause for concern ?
and should i be suspicious ?
i'm overseas trippin' , a million miles away
and she's still in l.a. , my mom's out in the bay
and these overseas minutes add up , that's a lot to pay
i can pay it , yeah i know , but it's the excuse i say
she's been tryna track me down
i feel like i'm cattin' now
dodgin' her when she's the one
i'm out here trippin' , actin' wild
start to wonder if i've changed
i'm like how could that be now ?
would these bitches be here really
if i wasn't rappin' now ?
now tell me now
i'm faded once again , i don’t know where i am
but i just know i'm driftin' far from you
i'm tryna keep my head strong , but my heart
won't just let me grow away from you
don't you know we're driftin' off , driftin' off ?
i know you think that it's my fault for fallin' off
all this hope and disregard , driftin' off
i know you think there ain't no fault , that fall apart
and now i'm missin' your love
i'm just so conflicted
it's been so long since we've kicked it
and i can't lie , i've missed it
but somewhere the current shifted
and now i'm somewhere else
far away , feel like we drifted
hard to face the facts
i'm drinkin' to escape 'em , then get lifted
get swept under a rug , 'till i'm trippin' on a pile
get a change , somethin' different for a while
yeah we grew apart with time
we ain't kicked it in a while
but i still think about you now
without you , see there's differences now
but shit happens , how could we have known ?
nothin' can prepare us
from sleepin' at your parents , now to sold out shows in paris
to parties at my hotel , ashin' blunts up off my terrace
tell me , how'd we ever come to live this careless ?
tell me now
i'm faded once again , i don’t know where i am
but i just know i'm driftin' far from you
i'm tryna keep my head strong , but my heart won't
just let me grow away from you
don't you know we're driftin' off , driftin' off ?
i know you think that it's my fault for fallin' off
all this hope and disregard , driftin' off
i know you think there ain't no fault , i fall apart
and now i'm missin' your love
and now i'm missin' your love