yo whaddup , this' gangsta boo
thank you for listening to our mixtape motherfuckers
hope you liked that shit
i wanna give a big shout out to my boy b king
he helped me put this project together
we gotta dope chemistry and that’s why i decided to work with my nigga , you know i mean
um... we never even met , i just wanna share that with ya'll
shit can get done if you put your mind to it
its all about the internet man , you know i saying ?
i met him over... over the internet man
shout out to speaker foxx who was telling me to work with him
we built a relationship and we put together a project for ya'll
um.. our first one was death bag , i believe
and then come off that , um.. rest in peace lloyd infamous
um , er'body over there , selector os , i see you.. white music
shout out to that boy dj zerk , you know i'm saying
that dirty hoe sample that’s in my song
dirty hoe was inspired by none other than the legendary , dj zerk
shout out to all the fucking legends in my city
you know , really , everybody who ; s doing their thing
everybody that has something to do with gangsta boo to get me to where i am now
i salute you... i may not fool with you but i salute you
its all good... its all love
me and check got a album out right now , its called witch
its in stores and its online and i got a new album that i'm working on
it’s gonna come out top of the year... late , late , late this year
more than likely , top of the year
i'm not rushing , you know i me
greatness takes time
cuz i'm comfortable... i'm living a comfortable life
i'm pretty much normal. i'm a normal chick
i just got massive talent and um... i'm legendary
you know... some think
and um... you know , so i'm not gonna rush it too much
i'm having fun with this shit man
i'm working with a lot of dope - ass producers now
brills... shout out to brills , shout out to lewis brodensky
shout out to polo the don , me and him got some dope shit coming up
i don’t wanna speak on too much
um... so yeah man , don’t sleep on the legends yo
keep that shit real underground , keep it real simple
keep it real , real , real kings and queenish
and um... oh yeah , shout out to ron dejules
i got some big shit poppin' with them
and just be on the lookout for me coming to a city near you real soon
putting together a tour right now
i'm definitely still active in this music shit
check me out on gangstabootique.com , follow me on twitter @gangstabooqom
um... you know , qom stands for queen of memphis
why ? because i brought the first gold plaque back
the first platinum plaque back
i got a song with eminem , um... outkast
i mean... for christ sake , the list goes on and on
first lady of 36 mafia
gangsta boo in this bitch
underground cassette tape music
shout out to tha bot rick ross for fuck with project pet in my city baby
i'm ouut