one , two , three and i come with the wicked
white house , lights out
boom boom boom with the bop gun
looks like i dropped one
i'm top gun , so picture..
( picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture )
bill clinton
( picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture )
( *phone beeping* )
here we go y'all
paint the white house black , brown
ha ha , yeah , what's up ?
what's boppin ?
this is dr. dre callin' from chronic control
could i speak to the president ?
awww , yeah , just tell him he was smokin' last night at the club
you know what i'm sayin ?
what ? - he don't inhale ?
well i know , i got the wrong motherfuckin' house
did somebody beep me from there ?
colors don't clash , people just do
color me happy next to you
aww , just like it should , there goes the neighborhood
that is what they'd have us believe
paint the white house black , brown
paint the white house..
( *sample of police sirens* )
paint the white house black , brown
paint the white house , black...
uhhhh lookin' through a view of views
seein' what they want you to
blinded by the flames of friendly fire
and then they sat there like a dope
until they choked from all that smoke
from behind a smoke screen of the patriotic liars
aiyyo , well check this out
if you talked to george clinton
tell him i'll catch him at the next plateau with the bomb
you know what i'm sayin ?
it's not the pretendo but the endo
and i'll be droppin' some straight chronic at his front door
paint the white house black , brown
paint the white house..
( cause white ain't right , so get the flashlight )
paint the white house black , brown
( no matter what creed , no matter what color )
paint the white house..
now , check this out
yo yo flavor man , we could kick like this
yo , we could kick it man , yo , word up , man
yo , check this out man
you know , the homeboys in detroit , in minneapolis , in l.a
in new york and down in d.c. man
they got the system in the back and boomin' it
but they don't know what we're sayin'
but the homeboys know what we're sayin'
you know what i'm sayin ?
yo , check yo - yo
if love ain't got nothin' to do with it then keep it
ain't no big secret , we all know the reason
people change every day but life stays the same
one big game , ain't a damn thing changed
a woman's got to do what a woman's got to do
be a mackstress , don't let these mackers mack you
so i get caught up in it , i'm stressin' and tired
the man who runs the joint gets me higher
it can be a white house , a black house
it can be a crack house , an outhouse
if it ain't the right house , go get your army gears baby
we got a fight , they ain't gonna set aside another night
( *sample of police sirens* )
it's so bad that los angeles , is so scandalous
give me somebody , who can handle us
yo - yo is on the top of things
so uhh.. color me mad , i'm ready for a change
i done came up short , one time too many
yet a brother got to be comin' out his nickles
and countin' up his last pennies
buyin' brushes and bum rushin' homey's greenery
many envy but a hill of beans is what it means to me
leave it up to me , i'm paintin' the white house black
there ain't no future in your frontin'
so why the hell you're frontin' jack ?
it'll either change or we're gonna change it
" yeah , it's gettin' old "
usin' everything , from spray cans to charcoal
put them up , then put the crew up on discharge
leavin' wet paint signs in the front yard
yo george , these people crazy man
they don't even know what i'm sayin'
awwwwww airbrushed and colorized
just changed right before our eyes , real as visualized
in every frame and let the love shine from the right house
be in the black , red or white house
through our fear the puppeteer can pull our strings
whoaahh , well alright , again i say oh say can you see
the puppeteer pull the strings of you and me from the white house
the out house of territorial conquest
the hud house , the pro - this , the anti - that
white against black , the right to life versus pro - choice
i pledge allegiance to the flag
being all i could never be.. kam read his toe tag
yeah , this is usa - k all day and you can't interrupt
lay back , watt's up
stars and stripes for tarzan types
got brothers like me behind bars and on pipes
damn , i'm gettin' took for a trip
they got me seein' stars from the club and stripes from the whip
why must you all be like that ?
i ain't into politics , so skip them white - collared tricks
they never did us no good
to hell with the space shuttle , put some money in the hood
and make jobs , let's mob up to the capitol
then we ain't got to rap at all
power to the people and the only way to get free
is the j - to - the - u - s - t - i - c - e
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
y'all can't stop the bum rush , so get the paint brush
it's time for a change
paint the white house black , brown
yo , listen to the real clinton " who bill clinton ? "
hell no , i'm talkin' about george clinton
paint the white house black , brown
all one blood , only a different color
and in a dis ya time , you have to help your neighbor
look at the downtown area , no food to eat , no shelter
them people have to live in a house made of paper
and when it rains it falls through like a sift wire
hunger deh hunger , all over about time
all of us come together
ice cube , dr. dre , n.w.a , flavor flav , chuck d
public enemy , flea , anthony stirrin' up the chili
yo - yo , kam and breed , prince and pupa that's me
one , two , three and i come with the wicked
boom boom boom with the bop gun , looks like i dropped one
you can get with this or you can get with it
got to peel his cap , who's the mack ?
shit , i'll paint the white house black
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
paint the white house black , brown
( no matter what creed or what color )
paint the white house..
( with god by my side we're gonna change this power )
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
paint the white house black , brown
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
paint the white house..
paint the white house black , brown
( red , white , or blue , purple or whatever )
paint the white house..
( i won't even care if it's technicolor )
paint the white house black , brown
( no matter what creed or what color )
paint the white house..
( with god by my side we're gonna change this power )
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
paint the white house black , brown
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
paint the white house...
you understand what i'm sayin ?
cause that's the way it be
because his name george and his last name begins with a " c "
picture this , paint a picture , picture perfect , paint a perfect picture
yeah , george clinton , nineteen ninety tre
droppin' on your punk ass motherfuckers and that's how we do it
you know what i'm sayin ? yeah
paint the white house black , brown
those who oppose to be leveled up next to this
i ain't the devil , this ain't the exorcist
worse than a nightmare , you don't have to sleep on wink
the pain the mind gets everytime you think
flashbacks , interfere , you start to hear
p - funk in your ear
ha yeah , what's up ?
this is dr. dre callin' from chronic control
peace and hair grease , i'm ouuuuuuut !
( *phone hanged up* )
damn ! !
aiyyo , 'dre was panasonic , what's up now ?