code : oh , how the funk linger
emcees' access : smell my finger ! !
awwwwwwww woooooowww , ladda ladda ledda ladda ladda
it's gonna take martial law , curfew ain't gonna get it
it's gonna take martial law , we're used to funking after hours
it's gonna take martial law , curfew ain't gonna get it
it's gonna take martial law , we're used to funking after hours
yeaaah whores , nothing but a party
check , funk is dead is what they said
while sitting around cheating at pool - smooth
bags bagging and they weren't bragging to tell the truth
they were looking real cool
they were choked up tight in their white on white
cocoa brown fronts were down
they wore candy striped ties hanging down to their flies
sported gold dust crowns
it's gonna take martial law , curfew ain't gonna get it
it's gonna take martial law , we're used to funking after hours
before i shrivel up and die
let me tell you a little story about the fbi
the cia , lapd of the usa
ask them why i list them , talking about that system
let us take a look and see what's up today
they're taking away the rights from people , that's wrong
what did king say : " can't we get along ? "
beat down by the man whose check he paid
stacey koons was just a drop , in the bucket full of wicked cops
no fire hose could wash that blood away
ca - chase the cat ! ! - ca - chase the cat ! !
we're used to funking after hours
ca - chase the cat ! ! - ca - chase the cat ! !
taking the cue from the man in view
he followed him into out of sight
where upon he paused or rather he stopped
pressing the rewind then play on the beat box
the funk was a phoney , a fake and a fraud , bootleg copies to boot
not funky with a p on it but funk with a three on it
now comes the time to salute
he says here's to begging duplicating and bootlegging
here's to the funk on which i'm high
the man made a pass , flashed a gold colored badge and said here's to i'm the fbi
homeboy grinned as he said my friend
you want to make an example out of me
cause i stole a little funk and i sold a little bunk funk
some prevert rapes your daughter and goes free
the man said with a grin , that's not why you lose and i win
if you're going to steal the funk , steal the motherfucking p !
martial law ! !
used to funking after hours , martial law
martial law ! !
never missing a beat , yeah !
martial law ! !
ladda ladda ledda ladda ladda
whenever the party goes on , whatever it takes
whenever the party goes on , whatever it takes
whenever the party goes on , whatever it takes