listen , i can make the devil say jesus
got a crew full of leaders
so far ahead of y'all the sun sets between us
that could make you upset , you live beneath the sunset
boy , i'm so fire , i could prob'ly make the sun sweat
preme won't hit me back ( ? ) i'm still runnin'
drop me in the jungle watch me come out with a full stomach
beats on the menu , sit me at the dinner table
eat so many rappers i could shit out a record label
( ? ) ain't really the place to slang on
they gon' let the bullets tackle you like you got pads on
rap circles 'round you niggas so fast i could start a sandstorm
fall out the sky , and a star is what i land on
ironically i'm cold as ever , hotter then a solar flare
if y'all cool...i guess that makes me a polar bear
you dont want ( ? ) trust me no ( ? ) for trying
homie i was ( ? ) kitty litter ( ? )
everybodys swagged out , but you look like a bum , dummy
yo my swag can take yo swag's lunch money
it's been a long day , i went home an drank some bombay
got my old girl tryna make - up , like stronjay
i'm just tryna get to a mil , i'm chasin' andres
stravin' artist , i'm rubbin' my belly like beyonce
crew move ways , press o's no latte ( ? ? )
and made three thousands like the madre of andre
" you ain't like them other dudes " , that's what my mom say
i was the crazy one in that group , devante
do it the don way , gettin' chips like picante
rippin it down the parkway listenin the the ( ? )
i dont spit it i just kick it like conmatae ( ? )
now they tryna put me in rings like a fiance
square in the circle , don't call me urkel
the kid with the green backpack will leave you purple
so lets keep it verbal
cause maybe not me but my entourage do keep shells , no turtle
wichita , kansas , yep that what he rep
on your b - e - t t - v sets , they need x
cause i'm like a t - rex
yo girl like a t - shirt
cause everytime i step out she tryna give v - neck
vizzy !
i'm a rock in a hard place
surrounded by smiles and they all fake
show be the best , watch me still outshine ( ? )
like the po - po did p diddy in 99
you dont feel me , you fear me , thats the bottom line
i'm out my mind
i set up shop at the promanade
whoa , it's been a long time coming
i guess i got the stamina for this rap and yo woman
my life is like chess the watchin my every move
class in session , jay take 'em to school
spittin on tracks , nah ( ? ) i ( ? )
like a short yellow bus , big helmets and twos
i'm an animal , and this rap game is a zoo
thought they were 'lympians , until they came to zeus
guess its in my genes , 'member ( ? )
straight dope talkin right on b - e - t too
rock !
im usually on some first name basis
but dudes mess my name up so much i wanna change it
a wise man told me to live what my mama gave me
a chance to see life outside of a lady
yeah , we was born kings , before i ever wrote it
history never written , if i ain't ever quote it
your blog ain't ish , if i ain't ever post it
87 dreams on your baby girl tell em post it
i let a chick blow me down til she brain dead
just to give her a lil taste of what fame is
fly city to illadel im famous
gilbere forte tatted on the anus
brought a chick on my right out stay whipping a supra
never watch the level ( ? )
you tryna touch the sky , i been sexin the clouds
you could die and go to heaven to see me once in a while
wow