guy : haha ha ha , that was funny man
watsky : that was funny ?
guy : yeah. so what's the , uh , what's the real track 4 , though ?
w : the real track ?
guy : yeah. that's - you're not actually gonna put that on the record though
w : yeah. that's actually track number 4 on the record
g : watsky
w : i'm telling you man , it's not a stretch. it's possible to be funny and serious at the same time
y'know. poignant
g : watsky
w : yes ?
g : you have to like , disrespect women and talk about clubs and shit , like , that's really important nowadays. that's what they want on the radio man
w : y'know , it's a track about , y'know , juvenile epilepsy and i feel like it'll be touching and -
g : see okay - you shouldn't have gone anywhere past juvenile. think juvenile. you didn't say bitch one time in that record
w : no , but at the end of that , eh -
g : sprinkle it man. sprinkle some disrespect on it
w : sprinkle it ?
g : sprinkle a little disrespect on it. there's no disrespect on the record , it's too nice
you need to have the big fucking glasses , a funny hat , where's your t - pain effect ?
i want you to go back , go home , and write a better song with more bitches , fuck more peoples'... mothers. and sisters. and brothers. and grandmothers and shit
then come back here , and we'll talk
w : lemme bounce with the beat for a second. no homo
uhm , yeah. whoo !
get in bed like i'm at war
make your vagina more than kinda sore
i'm hung like a dinosaur
shit your hymen tor
you're busted
you never grew up like a toys r us kid
i'm well - adjusted like jock strap crutches
bang my old teachers while the preschool watches
met a slow girl , i was fucking her fast
had some tight old pussy and got stuck in the paassstttt
i molest old age , grab the best old babe , in a breast hold babe
is your chest cold babe ?
are those boobs your goosebumps ?
hey sugar tits , can a pimp have two lumps ?
measure my heart prick , whatever the night
i use my dick as a yardstick to measure my height !
i'm healing myself , i have a hole in my pocket
and i'm feeling myself
i'm like wutang , your arts cookie cutter like a warhol soup can
the rapper who can destroy mere humans
fuck your facelift , fuck your played whip
i built a spaceship , to ride in while you're crusing earth
lampooning all the aliens that emcee in the universe !
the ten best rappers is a list of me
i exist to be , the greatest rapper in history
built a time machine from flava's clock and a saddle
taught plato to rap , then kicked his ass in a battle
i'm the best rapper alive
that gets mistaken for michael cera everywhere he drives
fuck michael cera
you weren't so super bad
when i was writing and
you were running around rodeo yelling
" who's your dad ? "
uh !
man , fuck this