here we go , come on
" a battle - a battle was fought , in brooklyn... "
" hessian soldiers killed 3 , 000 men ; much of the fighting took place in what is now prospect park in green - wood cemetery as well as the park slope and gowanus neighborhoods. "
" this was the first battle of america. "
rugged rhymsters , crooked crimesters
dime droppers , twenty - five - to - lifers
backstabbers , low blowers
illegal... cocaine growers
starvation , profanity
anxiety , brothers trying me
gun slingers , dead ringers
yo , my slang's out of this world
mix collaboration man , little man and his girl
way of life got me thinking , plus i'm analyzing young
youths on roofs , you know , three time felony brutes
roll together , tropical trees puff , whatever
yo we could go run up on , kids for leathers
what drug ? faculties bubble keys for g's
cream flow like seven seas , hit chicks guyanese
word up , hold your head before you fall out
the morgue route , the devil want that
let's get my niggas locked all out
change for better , that be my only vendetta
with life , feed your seed right , he's breathing indeed right
chef , remarkable , sparkable , raps and tackable gats
never get jacked , see ya then move black
paradise trife , plush with much ice
getting nice , laying back , sleep all my life ; word up !
" the battle of brooklyn depicted was the bloodiest
clash of the american revolution. soldiers killed
3 , 000 men , much of the fighting took place in what is now... "
crack patients , dime smokers
vial carriers , mocha tokers
burnt buildings , brothers building
save the children , investigative reports !
calling all cars , calling all cars ! ghetto
psychos , armed and dangerous , leaving mad scars
on those who are found bound , gagged and shot
when they blast the spot , victims took off like astronauts
get with this , even your best can't
come on down , you're the next contestant !
get your pockets dug from all your chemical bank ends
caught him at the red light – on putnam avenue and franklin
they used to heat up the cipher with a shot that was hyper
than your average jfk sniper
he just came home from spofford
rolling like kaufman , and laid that ass out like carpet
stop the stuttering boy , save complaints for the five - oh
then praise the god – chk - a - chk pow !
they release shots and premeditate to grab
and then they jet back to the lab
and then remain in shaolin , an endangered island
where shorties lose blood by the gallons
" have integrated a number of corrupt cops , judges
...into high - level positions , to insure the continued
success of the drug smuggling and money laundering operations "
crack patients , dime smokers
vial carriers , mocha tokers
burnt buildings , brothers building
save the children , investigative reports !
yo , i grab the pen for revenge and let loose , see
like muslims , standing on the block , rocking a kufi
the hundred - dollar kick rocking kid's back for more
starting gun wars , with black reeboks and velours
jungle way of life , living villain
packed with visions , copywritten
throwing bread to pigeons , christ has risen
king elegant , slang master , jack expensive noodle hats
in sixty - nine , old timers time that brothers shot craps
the baggy blue guess jeans , pull strings off in palm springs
i'm locked in the bing , rocky ring labelled rap king
the corner emperor – the golden thieves play the benches
rednecks be hanging big niggas down in memphis
back in now - y , hit the bull's eye with loaded nines
life is like tarzan , swinging from a thin vine
shatter dreams , then mirrors don't need a press spirals
aim at the white shadows with big barrels
of moet - ers , the bald headers , milk and armarettas
who fear none , crushing all personal vendettas , yo
they use guns while we angrily shot arrows
you better keep your eye on the sparrow
rugged rhymsters , crooked crimesters
dime droppers , twenty - five - to - lifers
backstabbers , low blowers
illegal... cocaine growers
starvation , profanity
anxiety , brothers trying me
gun slingers , dead ringers
" have integrated a number of corrupt cops , judges and lawyers
into high - level positions – to insure the continued success
of the drug smuggling and money laundering operations "