no ! no ! i want an official red ryder carbine - action two - hundred - shot range model air rifle !
you'll shoot your eye out kid
merry christmas
wait , kringle bells all the way
ayy , on your heels , girl make that shake
got 'bout three hoes on my sleigh
and tryna tee up christmas day
won't you , won't you kringle bells all the way
got them bells all on her shake
got 'bout three hoes on the way
got 'bout three hoes in my sleigh
legs up , the hello kitties
hell yeah , i wanna prove
ah yeah , it's cuffing season
hell yeah , but you got a man
yeah yeah , tell him get
spread up , i'm in the spirit
say it now
i don't play ( legs up )
see my face ( hell yeah )
have a seat ( oh yeah )
make a plate ( hell yeah )
she can't wait ( yeah yeah )
still awake ( spread up )
to open yeah ( yeah yeah )
it's christmas day ( say it now )
( kringle bells all the way ) all the way !
( on your heels you'll make that shake ) i make it shake !
( got 'bout three hoes on my sleigh ) up on my sleigh !
( i tried to tee up on this day ) on christmas day !
( won't you , won't you kringle bells all the way ) all the way !
( got them bells all on her shake ) on christmas day !
( got 'bout three hoes on the way ) i brought them away
( got 'bout three hoes in my sleigh ) igh !
i keep you close , hollowin' in snow
call your santa claus
that's what christmas for
hey , i got three hoes on the way ( on the way )
got 'bout three hoes on my sleigh ( i make it sleigh )
they tryna tee up christmas day ( on christmas day )
they tryna tee up christmas day ( on christmas day )
tell them jingle bells all the way ( up all the way )
bells are hangin' , damn they shake ( and make it shake )
i got three hoes on the way ( up on the way )
they tryna tee up christmas day ( on christmas day )
just tell me which floor , should i get off ?
and i'll be right there to set it off
i'll be right there to deck the halls
either your love or none at all
and your presence is a present for me
for christmas or just because
it's either your love or none at all
either your love or none at all
christmas !
oh , i love christmas
being obligated to buy shit for people at a certain time in the year
i buy christmas gifts , but just , just 'cause you're supposed to
jesus
autotune that for me
jesus
consumerism my reason
jesus' birthday
i swear to god , if you leave my raw vocals like that
we not friends anymore
autotune my shit and put them , put them travis scott effects on my shit