i'm fuck as drunk - wait - no , i'm drunk as fuck
i know my limit - and i ain't had enough
hey you with that ass - shake that shit
tonight is what you make of it , so motherfucker…
t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u
so motherfucker
t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u
pop it , wobble , shake it , pop it , wobble , shake it just for me
gold around my neck and i ball , girl , i'm mr.t
you give that girl a couple shots
and i guarantee she gon' shake for free
she says she don't dance with the lights on
hit the right song , guess what , girl ? this that beat !
now let me stop playin' with ya , girl , i'mma cut to the chase
i'mma leave your back broke when i stroke
you gon' need you a brace
right now my mouth look like a pot of gold
a couble diamonds in it and ace
and any nigga in here broke is a life wasted , disgrace
i covered my face and said
they say that pussy interfere with loot
still in the club - pocket full of miracles
other niggas throw ones , let me show what benjamin can do
franklins on top of franklins , i could probably build a school
with this amount , i got six accounts
getting so fucked up everything i say is mispronounced
swimming pools full of liquor and i'm floatin' through the current
tryna pour a couple more , goddamn , but i am slurring - fuck it
i step in the club , my sack right
smoke in the club , my pack right
so many m's i hustle good
juicy be keepin' that trap right
got a bad bitch , that ass tight
smoking on kick and my eyes tight
and i don't do no talking , man
cause bandz gone make her act right
it's the trippy k , juicy j
stoned all day , don't need a break
ain't talking money , get out of my face
ain't talking trippy , get out of my way
feds watching , i know this
all this money , i'm thrown'
all the strippers they goin'
i got a stack and they know it
that's cause i love to show it
cocaine money
guess that's why i blow it
they watch me like a movie
just like fam' , i'm nolan
franklins i be holdingg
my bank account keep growing
and pistols we be toting
t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u
t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u
t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u. , t.u