it's us , find power
live life , mind power
it's us , find power
live life , mind power
yo , fuck anybody i might alarm
life is a tour , i sit and ride along
takin' some notes and then i write the song
i’m starin' down the road my life has gone
is this where i belong ?
is it wrong to not believe in right and wrong ?
my mental state is fuckin' me up , and i cried a pond
while asking you for some answers
but we don’t have that type of bond
that my desires gone with the way that i’ve been livin' lately
if i died right now , you’d turn the fire on
sick of this bullshit , niggas call me a sell - out
'cause i hopped to christianity so strongly , then i fell out
now i’m avoidin' questions
like a scared dog with his tail down
feelin' so damn humiliated
'cause they lookin' at me like i’m hellbound
what story should i tell now ? i’ll just expose the truth
i'm so close to the fuckin' edge , i should be close to you
but who the fuck are you ? you never showed the proof
and i’m only fuckin' human , yo , what am i supposed to do ? !
there’s way too many different religions
with vivid descriptions
beggin' all fuckin' men and women to listen
i can’t even beat my dick without gettin' convicted
these ain’t wicked decisions , i got different intentions
i've been itchin' to get it , i’ve been given assistance
but the whole fuckin' system is twisted
now i’m dealin' with this backlash
because marcus isn't a christian
and i’ve been told that my sinful life is an addiction
but i can’t buy it , it’s just too hard to stand beside it
i need an answer , and humans can’t provide it
i look at the earth and sun
and i can tell a genius man designed it
it’s truly mind - blowin' , i can’t deny it
is heaven real ? is it fake ? is it really how i fantasize it ?
where’s the holy ghost at ?
how long’s it take a man to find it ?
my mind’s a nonstop tape playin' and i can’t rewind it
you gave me the bible and expect me not to analyze it ? !
i’m frustrated and you provoked it
i’m not readin' that motherfuckin' book
because a human wrote it
i have a fuckin' brain , you should know it
you gave it to me to think to avoid every useless moment
it was a mission that i had to abort
'cause humans be lyin' , we're such an inaccurate source
it’s gon’ be hard to put me back on the course
next jehovah’s witness to come on my porch
i swear i’m slammin’ the door
a lot of folks believe it though , but i’m not surprised
humans are fuckin' dumb , still thinkin' that pac’s alive
i ain’t tryin' to take your legacy and torch it down
i’m just sayin' , i ain’t heard shit from the horse’s mouth
just sheep always tellin' stories of older guys
who were notarized by you when you finally vocalized
now i’m supposed to bow my head and close my eyes
and somehow let the holy ghost arise
sounds like a fuckin' poltergeist
show yourself , and then boom , it's done , every rumor’s gone
i no longer doubt this shit , you’re the one
i’ll admit that my sinful ways was stupid fun
and all my old habits can hop on top of a roof to plunge
i’ll donate to a charity that could use the funds
fuck the club ; instead of bitches
i’d hang with a group of nuns
and everyone that i ran into would know what i came to do
i wouldn't take a step unless it was in the name of you
i hate the fact that i have to believe
you haven’t been chattin' with me like you did adam and eve
and i ain’t seen no fuckin' talkin' snake unravel from trees
with an apple to eat , that shit never happens to me
i don’t know if you do or don’t exist , it's drivin' me crazy
send your condolences
this is me reachin' to you , so don’t forget
if hell is truly your pit of fire and i get thrown in it
i’ma probably regret the fact that i ever wrote this shit
my gut feelin' says it’s all fake
i hate to say it , but fuck it , shit , i done lost faith
this isn’t a small phase , my perspective’s all changed
my thoughts just keep pickin' shit apart all day
and in my mind i make perfect sense
if you aren’t real , then all my prayers aren’t worth a cent
that would mean that i could just make up what my purpose is , and i could sit in church and say “fuck” in the services
man , what if jesus was a facade ?
then that would mean the government’s god
i feel like they’ve been brainwashin' us with a lot
so much that we don’t even notice that we’re stuck in a box
man , everything is “what if ? ”—why is it always “what if ? ”
planet earth “what if ? ” , the universe “what if ? ”
my sacrifice “what if ! ” , my afterlife “what if ! ”
every fuckin' thing that deals with you is fuckin' suspect
i’m fuckin' done ! i’m fuckin' done !
this is my fuckin' life and i’m livin' it , i’m havin' fun
if you really care for me
prove that i need to live carefully !
but i’ll be damned if i put my own pleasure aside
for an afterlife that isn’t even guaranteed
we are you , and you’re us—stop playin' games !
my life’s all i got , and heaven is all in my brain
and when i feel i'm in hell
my ideas are what get me through pain
do as you please , and i’ll just do me
i’m a human , i’ll stay in my lane ; ill mind
it's us , find power
live life , mind power
it's us , find power
live life , mind power