check it , i used to be the goofy man you hounded
the special ed kid at lunchtime
the bitches wouldn't stand around with
i would jack off so much back at my parents' house
and now my dick has a permanent imprint
of my hand around it
life was lame , i had to pay money to fuck a whore
i couldn't pull a damn anorexic bitch in a tug o' war
but then i made enough money for me to fund a tour
now the ladies show me the goodies under their wonderbra
i'm goin' door to door , with foreign swords
causin' more than war
slayin' rappers , commercial or horrorcore
so , hold your head , 'cause i'ma torture yours
leavin' morbid sores
i promise you it will be hard to ignore the gore
hip - hop's dead , and i'm the lucky savior
i'm kinda mad and i don't wanna pile up the anger
all these no - flow , gimmicky - ass , fired - up behaviors
with wack beats and gap teeth like tyler the creator
motherfucker , you not dope
so you tryna get some attention by cussin'
and eatin' a fuckin' cockroach ?
in " goblin " ? you get no props on it
it sucks so much i get blowjobs from it
i been told you niggas , " i'm real ! "
if you wack and no one's confronted you
on your bullshit , then i will
hate on me , but you can't deny skill
i crush all the momentum that you guys build
with my eyes sealed
you faggots got me cussin'
and only reason you probably buzzin'
is 'cause you slave as an illuminati puppet
y'all really on one , beat it , you're gone , done
you think real niggas feelin' your shit ? c'mon , son !
i'm the illest and that's fo' shizzle
my flow sizzles , your boy hop go hard like some cold nipples
you niggas are makin' it so simple
my swag makes the ladies wave
like fat stomachs with bold ripples
i know you niggas wish you could prevent it , 'cause i get buck like my kool aid's got way too much sugar in it
you better run like i'm booger - flickin'
homie , i've been good at rappin'
now i'm tryin' to get gooder with it
so i'ma just go beast , and bring that west coast heat
'cause i'll be damned if you flex on me
the radio is filled with garbage over techno beats
and all these songs about cash are what we just don't need
yo , nobody care about how much money you stack
i murder everything i touch , buddy , move back !
got enough guts to sew trash and bust up your fluke act
and leave your fans sayin' , " how the fuck does he do that ? "
my rankin' is vicious , you thinkin' it isn't ?
come pay me a visit if you feel that you may be offended
baby , i'm wicked , crazy and sick
and with the face of a nimwit
i be callin' out names , but i ain't takin' attendance
some bitch was like…
" hop , you got me cryin'
'cause you said i could call you
while you out on tour , shit , and i be tryin'
i even text you , but you not replyin'
so when your new shit finally drop
that's one album i will not be buyin'
what , you're too hollywood ?
and you don't even have two minutes ?
ever since you got your buzz
you don't know how bad you trippin'
you went to that ho's house last night
and you said that you didn't
i seen your pic on facebook
the skank bitch done tagged you in it ! "
i got put on with the beastie flow
now the sluts , they wanna bone when they see me , whoa !
so i must , i take 'em home , let the wee wee grow
then i bust from different strokes , like the tv show
see , when i be comin' through
kickin' it raw , niggas like , " gee , he's dope ! "
if there's anyone throwing dirt at my name
then you know he be toast
for all of you rappers who bringin' me drama
homie , please be ghost
the only reason i'm bein' aggressive is 'cause we need hope
" hey yo , hopsin , i fuckin' love you
'cause you supply the best rhymes
since your flow is kinda strange
you should sign with tech n9ne
you design erect lines , who am i to just lie ?
every single night i play your music right at bedtime
and usually i'm not into dark dick
i wanna do somethin' freaky enough to win your heart with "
i say , " what you wanna do ? " , she say , " it's simple , marcus
i wanna blow it before you put it in like a nintendo cartridge "
bitch , i'm hotter than a uv ray
hotter than the thought of nicki minaj naked
makin' her booty shake
hot enough to pull up to yo' show and steal yo' groupie date
hot enough to melt the ice cream that's on gucci's face
and now you havin' hot flashes
all the shit that you ever wanted in one mc , hop has it
don't rap if you do not practice
i cockblock wack shit , now get ready for knock madness !