yeah , hopsin , funk volume
come on , keep sleepin' on me !
hollywood - ass rappers , bitch - ass females !
huh , that's enough to make a nigga flip
i erupt like a bomb , so give up the baton
i'll slap you after bustin' a fuckin' nut in my palm
why you muggin' me like somethin' was wrong ?
just take a puff of the bong
and let me leave your mind corrupt from the song
see , you can't stop me , 'cause i'ma brainwash teens
and create false dreams , 'cause it pays﻿ off clean
i'm just an idiotic , ironic , symbolic , illuminati product
that's gonna be killed if i talk about it ( shhh ! )
this industry bidness is all screwed up
i have no favorite rappers , because all you suck
i sever the weakest niggas who not on my pedigree
'cause on a tombstone is as hard as their name will ever be
i'm judged by my wild image a lot
and everybody seems to think i have a sinister plot
i do ! be offended by every sentence i jot
i got some militant thoughts
and you ain't killin' 'em off , so listen !
i sag my pants until my ass shows
i even slap hoes ( bitch ! )
yeah , i'm an asshole , yeah , yeah
and your parents hate me 'cause i love you ( so ? )
tell 'em i said " fuck you ! "
yeah i said " fuck you ! " — yeah , yeah
i snuck in drake's house when he was alone inside
you can say i have a bogus mind
i dimmed the lights down and closed the blinds
around his neck is where my rope was tied
i yanked on it 'til it broke his spine ( yeah ! )
lately i been fuckin' pissed off ( why ? )
'cause everybody's sayin' lil wayne spits raw
i'll start a big brawl , and slam his ass into a brick wall
and have a fat nigga sit on him , rick ross ( boss ! )
i don't play with this rap shit
i got no life , i stay in the attic
fuck a rap career , i'm waitin' to smash it
soulja boy , you﻿ got a corny flow
so you can suck my fuckin' dick through a glory hole
i'm just bein' me , what you tryna hate for ?
all you niggas is faker than lupe fiasco claimin' he skateboards
yeah right , that nigga can't even ollie
push him away on the dolly
not even satan can stop me—what !
i sag my pants until my ass shows
i even slap hoes ( bitch ! )
yeah , i'm an asshole , yeah , yeah
and your parents hate me 'cause i love you ( so ? )
tell 'em i said " fuck you ! "
yeah i said " fuck you ! " — yeah , yeah
i'm probably the sickest motherfucker who don't get recognized
eazy - e's wife's life somewhere now jeopardized
she signed me and i was set aside
for like three and a half years , i don't think i remember why
i'm fuckin' dope , and this is my reward ?
that's wacker than the 500 dollars you signed me for
eazy's dead now , yeah , the label's finally yours
too bad he never knew that you were just a grimy whore
you can't maintain what eric built
i know he's in his grave , turnin' like a ferris wheel
don't think you cool just 'cause you inherit mills
bitch , bare the skills ! i'm hopsin , i spit shit so unfair and real
i got some deep , dark issues within
all because you lied and tried to pretend you a friend
fuck ruthless ! bitch , i'll never lend you a hand !
and i'ma make sure nobody ever sign with you again
you know why ?
i sag my pants until my ass shows
i even slap hoes ( bitch ! )
yeah , i'm an asshole , yeah , yeah
and your parents hate me 'cause i love you ( so ? )
tell 'em i said " fuck you ! "
yeah i said " fuck you ! " — yeah , yeah