man , i hate rap , but if the shoe fits , wear it
i've become a freak of nature all the kids stare at
who walk around bumpin' raw with the shit blarin'
saying " fuck school ! " and droppin' out like a miscarriage
i'm embarrassed and i'm ashamed
i played a part in this devilish game
makin' your common sense perish
but i ain't takin' the full blame , ‘cause most of you chumps runnin' around here ain't never had strict parents
all of your brain cells rottin' from weed
you feelin' like if you ain't got it , life's not as complete
you havin' sex with every - motherfuckin' - body you see
with a past so dark that satan'd jump out of his seat
but still you out in these streets , thinkin' you hot as can be
without the knowledge to lead , so you just follow the sheep
makin' sure your lame swag is all polished and clean
while your favorite rapper's like , " yeah , he got it from me. "
you been brainwashed by a fake life that you're used to livin'
when i say the word " fun , " what do you envision ?
probably drinkin' and smokin' out with your crew and chillin'
with clueless women you tryin' to bang , bumpin' new edition
is that all you think life really is ?
well , if so , then you're a fuckin' idiot
i honestly feel like grabbing your head and hitting it
matter of fact , you don't even deserve a brain — give me it !
do you even have any goals
aside from baggin' these hoes and packin' a bowl ?
well , let me guess — no
you're only in school because your parents make you go
when all you do is play beer pong and hang out with the bros
yo , society's got you livin' for a whack cause
you're a fuckin' adult with no skills at all
you don't read any books or play ball
you don't draw — you literally do nothing at all !
still you fiend for the glamorous fruits
you don't have , ‘cause you idolize rappers that do
and all they say is , " i got money and it's stacked to the roof. "
and now you think that it's gon' magically just happen to you ?
how ? your lazy ass don't commit to labor
you pick somethin' up , try it out , and put it down two minutes later
then you complain about your life ‘cause it ain't gettin' catered
now whoever tries to call you on your bullshit's a hater ?
you wanna succeed , you have to try ; or one day you'll get older
and regret it all ‘cause you can't provide
your friends are lowlives , don't act surprised
look , just cut the bad fruit off of the tree , make the sacrifice
girls , stop actin' like you want a guy
with traits like romeo — bitch , that's a fuckin' lie !
you always talk about how every man's fake and you can't take it
and you want somethin' real — shut up , tramp , save it !
twice a week you put on your makeup and damn bracelets
and head to the club half - naked with your ass shakin'
pullin' a lowlife nigga who claim he cash - makin'
'til you let him hit and find out he work at the gas station
one of them niggas got you pregnant and you can't raise it
but you caused it , your actions made a fat statement
you want romeo , then act patient
and stop frontin' like he in the club posted in the back waitin'
it's the club , where guys put on a new persona
after they get loaded with a few corona's
they always shoutin' and wild out
with habits that very few condone of
then they look for beautiful brainless bitches like you to bone 'em
then when they leave you , you cry and cry
talkin' about , " oh my god , i can't find a guy !
i've spent so many years and i've tried and tried !
why am i even on earth ? i should die ! "
you want romeo , you're not worthy
you're cock - thirsty , you're nasty and probably got herpes
sometimes the secret to finding is to stop searching
try a new formula , ‘cause your last one's not working
the term " real nigga " is publicly used
and i need to know what it means , ‘cause i'm fuckin' confused
are you one for always bustin' your tool
with nothin' to lose and somethin' to prove
to homies up in your crew ?
is it because you're sellin' drugs to get loot
and brag about how you done been shot and stabbed
like it's fun to be you ?
but your life's a struggle , right , and you just hustlin' through ?
nah , you hamster - ass nigga , you just stuck in a loop
man , why do black people gotta be the only ones who can't evolve ? ‘cause you in the streets actin' like a neanderthal
it's clear you can't stand the law
you're lost as an abandoned dog
and all you're interested in is fightin' , rappin' and basketball
i can't even fuck with you
‘cause if we out in public , you gon' get caught stealin' some shit , and get my ass in trouble , too
you'll get old and be nothin'
livin' life in these streets , thuggin'
and starting shit with anybody mean - muggin'
look at you , a real nigga , thinkin' your life's cool
girls used to turn me down for guys who were like you
'til you grab their heart and shove a spearhead right through
then they regret it because it wasn't the right move
your " real nigga " talk seems bogus
a real nigga don't brag about being real as long as he knows it
and his future doesn't seem hopeless
a real nigga stays out of jail , handles shit and he keeps focused
to all you rappers whose soul is out in the wrong
you inspired the issue i wrote about in this song
you go to prowl on the young who roam around in the slums
see , this is what happens when rap's overcrowded with bums
hope the hour is long when i'm rollin' out with your tongue
the man above is my guide , you know the power is strong
all you menacin' freaks are only in it for cheese
and the mass - control limit was breached — fuck hip - hop !
they only in it for cheese , and any eyewitness can see
they purposely makin' the innocent weak
my existence on this planet's for you , i ain't only here to benefit me
yo , we need to make a change while there's still time
it is hard , and sometimes i struggle tryin' to reveal mine
i can guide you if you feel blind
i just need you to be willin' to journey into my ill mind