nigga , what the fuck ? ( what the fuck ? )
homie , i made you rich , paid your rent ( damn right ! )
bitin' the hand that was feedin' you
this shit don't make any sense
nigga , what the fuck ? ( what the fuck ? )
you know this is that real shit
how you gon' forget who built this ? ( huh ? )
i'm the one who made the company all the millions
now you got problems to deal with
man , this is tough luck , see a couple weeks ago we was buds
and the crew that was killin' shit was us
'til you turned on me , homie , that's fucked up
i ain't keepin' this shit on the hush , hush
on my chest i just carry too much stuff
i done had it , enough is enough , bruh
plus i needed somethin' to get my buzz up
you done fucked with the wrong dude
ain't no tellin' what hopsin is gon' do , creepin' up on you
quit your sleepin' , i told you
this a mothafuckin' journey we finna go through
if i ain't have so much to lose
i swear to god i'd probably beat up and choke you ( damn ! )
nigga , this that raw shit ( right ? )
that organic flow you probably see up in whole foods
shiver me timbers , something's fishy 'bout you , mr. d ritter
when i told you that i wanted new management
why the fuck you throw a fit and seem bitter ?
why you catch an attitude whenever i question you
about all my fuckin' percentages ?
i know why ( why ? ) , you've been bendin' it
in your benefit—your honor , i'm innocent !
this nigga crazy , i'm tellin' all of my people ( you tell 'em ! )
he takin' all of my c - notes ( it's true )
see , he has a gamblin' issue
he takes the cash and blows it all at casinos ( damn ! )
uh - oh , when i bring up my royalties
you start avoidin' me , that's some disloyalty
you woke up the evil boy in me , your ass is poisoning
tell me why you would destroy fv ?
this was a fuckin' vision that i had created with your brother
but you too infatuated with the money
you killed it and ran it straight into the gutter
now i think , " why'd i make d—a—m—e the boss ? "
you keep pissin' a whole lot of people off
our whole label came out with a weak result
you on that same bullshit tomica brought
nigga , i don't know what you thought
you think i can’t see the blood on the walls ?
blood on the walls , that ain't goin' down , nigga
i don't know what you thought
i can clearly see the blood on the wall
blood on the walls , that ain't goin' down , nigga
ain’t got time for your bullshit
everybody knows you be on it
ain’t got time for your bullshit
everybody knows you be on it
ain’t got time for your bullshit
everybody knows you be on it
ain’t got time for your bullshit
hold up ! hold up !
i got some more shit to say , yo
it’s supposed to be funk volume , isn’t it ?
thought it was music above all the business
but you just said : " fuck all you niggas ! "
you tarnished the brand
and you started a funk volume fitness ?
come on now , really think
got us portrayin' somethin' we really ain’t
how we supposed to be ill
when you on our website with a shake weight
tryna be billy blanks—nigga , thanks !
fool , ain’t nobody tryna lift weights
we just wanna hit up the studio and just rap and do shows
but you don’t understand the culture of hip - hop
you a lame - ass nigga , dame , half the crew knows
new - age jerry heller , a scary fella
i hate your fuckin' name , every letter
i’m very fed up , you actin' like an ordinary heffa
i’ma take you to the mortuary dress - up
we gave you our trust , then you had us cornered
you got us a shitty label deal with warner
and if i confront you about it
you tell me i need counsellin' and i got a disorder
you sent me on tour and it’s horror
shitty hotels , no sleep , with no food to order
meet and greets every single day , it’s torture
how you expectin' an a1 performer ?
every time something’s wrong it’s the same thing ( what ? )
blah - blah - blah - blah , you just blame me ( damn ! )
then you tell brooklyn and jammie ( damn ! )
now they both thinkin' i’m crazy ( damn ! )
i deal with this on the daily ( damn ! )
my career mentally rapes me ( damn ! )
i won’t let this nigga break me
he prayin' dizzy wright is gon’ replace me , shady
what are your fuckin' motives , dame ? let’s talk about it !
umm , you’re our manager , our label - owner , our accountant
hmm , that’s kinda tricky
something is fishy , that’s risky
we just don’t even know
we go with the flow while you rowin’ the boat
you keepin' us simple - minded
'cause you knowin’ our only concern is just hopin’ we blow
so , when all the money come in from our album and tours
you sit there and soak in the dough
when did we ever ask about the gross ?
when did we ever ask about the net ?
you would just hand us money from our shows
'cause you knew we wasn’t questionin' the checks
nigga , i trusted you with my life
you upped your percentage so i’m makin' less ? !
fuck you , bitch , you get no respect !
this is why hop is comin' for your neck ( bless ! )
all you care about is makin' money
you don’t care about a fuckin' soul though
you just fluctuate our dollars up and down
at your convenience like a fuckin' pogo
you been screwin’ everybody on the label on the low
and they don’t even know though
so , good luck , jarren , dizzy , hoppa , swizzz , i’m goin' solo
nigga , i don't know what you thought
you think i can’t see the blood on the walls ?
blood on the walls , that ain't goin' down , nigga
i don't know what you thought
i can clearly see the blood on the wall
blood on the walls , that ain't goin' down , nigga
ain’t got time for your bullshit
everybody knows you be on it
ain’t got time for your bullshit
everybody knows you be on it
ain’t got time for your bullshit
everybody knows you be on it
ain’t got time for your bullshit
change is one of the most difficult things that we face
but change is inevitable
one reason we don’t like change
is we get comfortable where we are
we get used to our friends , our job , the place we live
and even if it’s not perfect we accept it , because it’s familiar
and what happens is , because we’re not willing to change
we get stuck in what god used to do
instead of moving forward into what god is about to do
just because god’s blessed you where you are
doesn’t mean you can just sit back and settle there
you have to stay open to what god is doing now
what worked five years ago may not work today
if you’re going to be successful
you have to be willing to change
every blessing is not supposed to be permanent
every provision is not supposed to last forever
we should constantly evaluate our friendships
who’s speaking into your life ?
who are you depending on ?
make sure they're not dragging you down
limiting you from blossoming
everybody is not supposed to be in our life forever
if you don't get rid of the wrong friends
you will never meet the right friends