{hook} lord i'm praying' for my enemies , cause i don't know how long them boys can roam the streets. ( 4x )
{iamjustice} i dont trust niggas that talk a lot i gotta sick sense niggas rat to cops niggas ain't getting money they try to plot nigga wanted that drama we load up the chopper , ridding round with that zoe pound , well connected with 100 rounds , fuck around and get fucked around wit them rat niggas we don't fuck with clowns. semi to spray see my niggas don't play bout that bread we go ape 30 rounds to that face , open brain surgery niggas got urgency stacking that currency pussies stay nervously moving so we shot him perfectly m.o.b said he deservedly got lit wit courtesy heart burst internally niggas provoking that relapse that ends with heat sparking . like fuck that nigga , ain't no need to speak , full clip gone lift his feet , where i'm from we don't even creep , all black them funeral colors , vampire of a different breed pussy nigga don't test that g , for ya'll folks got rest in peace t's. back in the of the 4 door lac , ridding with fiends trigger happy on the map , giving no fucks how bitch niggas act , false claiming niggas get matching head wraps. born and raised by the wolves , welcome to the jungle where niggas wish you would , dump on a nigga body in the trunk for a few figures fuck with og brains scattered by the trigger. juts give the
{hook}
{iamjustice} first off don't get involved with a fucking dog , i be that nigga they let off the leash you playing frog , jumping out the side of ya neck boy you can meet the sawed , youngins been on that 187 og whats the call ? ridding around with them goblins , them demons totting twin pistons , four - fif with extended , no fucks to give you better duck bitch , niggas ready to ride by any means fuck an enemy niggas gone sleep if we talking beef nigga 6 ft souls fly when they trigger breath a sigh of relief nigga don't plead yo life gone cease. i relapse in this bitch got the mac in this bitch send full clip to that bitch boy dont play bout my chips i go ape bout some bricks , behave or get lit play no games bout a snitch. nigga i was raised by them wolves walk out on the block pop 1 ours get ya card pulled , bout my fam , ima still ride , nigga fuck the bullshit straight homicide
{hook}
{mystery cipher} lord i'm praying for my enemies
they see on the come up what's it gonna be ?
they prayin' on my downfall , that's why i'm not around ya'll
homie i don't field ( feel ) ya billy buckner with a ground ball
swear to god i be prayin' for them , i'm asking god like every night
kill'em off in they dreams , freddy kruger , scary sight
see me finally getting mine , that's the reason they hating damn ?
i'm getting old , but getting wiser got me feeling like peyton mann
that's the reason they can relate i don't talk shit i speak facts
he looking for love ? homie i just seek stacks
never been a middle man , i lead us like a boss
lord i'm prayin' 4 my enemies like jesus on the cross
{outro - mystery cipher} lord forgive them for they not know what they do