they killed my entire family
murdered and tortured , raped and pillaged
i was only five and i was the only surviving witness
my entire village burnt to the ground
he wore a serpent in his crown
happily committed murder with a frown
in an army of black - hooded fiery - skulled generals
and a sorcerer that could cast spells that’ll change your genitals
held me in slavery till i turned eighteen
killed my slave master , five years later became king
and i slain dragons and ate steaks during famine
had the seeds of war planted in a dirty tavern
had the seeds of presidents killed in a burst of anger
and had their parents bleed to death on the floor of a dirty bathroom
i watched their palaces burn , i seen the ashes of my comrades
returned to their family in an urn
while a proud child remembers his father that died
the cycle continues with vengeance alive in his mind
refuse , resist , war is my destiny !
desire unleashed , war is my destiny !
chaos , a.d. , war is my destiny !
under a pale grey sky , war is my destiny !
yeah , yeah , i was an angel before a third of the stars fell
cast with the sternum from satan into the pit of hell
our beloved leader forced to be a bottom - feeder
the great deceiver that promised victory over the monkey lovers
we took a vote to restructure and traitors fell upon him
we ripped his skin off and crowned a new son in the morning
a new president to lead our corporation
the vengeance on god and heaven’s domination
but i seduced the daughters of man and made the nephilim
i demanded human sacrifice from the rest of them
i became the spirit that tortured and protected them
and i built them the tower of language that connected them
and then the lord cried , water falling out from his eyes
and my children died drowning in the tears from the sky
and it was then that satan crawled back to me with a plan
a design for the ultimate corruption of man
see back then we used to set the chosen ones on fire
you really think god only sent a single messiah ?
and so we allowed the birth of many prophets on earth
and since the followers were human they were born with a curse
they began to claim superiority to their brothers
and for eighty - five thousand years conquered each other
and when they prayed before battle they were praying to me
killing in god’s name cause war is my destiny !
refuse , resist , war is my destiny !
desire unleashed , war is my destiny !
chaos , a.d. , war is my destiny !
under a pale grey sky , war is my destiny !