i'm obnoxious , motherfucker , can't you tell ?
run through little havana , yellin' , " ¡viva fidel ! "
jerkin' off with the sheets when i stay at hotels
drinkin' bacardi at aa meetings , smokin' a l
i'm broke as hell , my attitude is no good
like workin' for white people after watchin' rosewood
so i'm a mercenary , i don't care how i get richer
like american companies that did business with hitler
get the picture , nigga ? i'm the best of both worlds
without the hidden camera , and the 12 - year - old girl
let's face it , you're basic , you aren't half the man that i am
i'll throw your gang sign up , and then i'll spit on my hand
give me a hundred grand !
give me your watch ! give me your chain !
that's your girl ? bitch , get over here ! give me some brain !
i'll bust off on her face , and right after the segment
she'll probably rub it in her pussy , tryna get herself pregnant
i said it , i meant it , that's the way i deal with enemies
like pro - lifers that support the death penalty
and don't talk about war when niggas know that you puss
a fuckin' hypocrite draft - dodger like george bush
don't push me , nigga , 'cause i'm close to the edge
and i'll jump off with a rope that's wrapped around ya head
send a dead fetus to my ex on valentine's day
the safety's off , nigga , so get the fuck out my way !
obnoxious , nigga , murderous lyrics
i know that you hear it
now that i'm gettin' closer and closer , i know that you feel it
you're eatin' off rap , and i hope you choke on your gimmick
niggas said hip - hop was dead , but i'm invokin' the spirit
we takin' it back in the day to the golden age
when wack motherfuckers used to get thrown off stage
immortal technique , i made this to bump in your ride
or burn it off the internet and bump it outside
nigga , we keepin' it live , we keepin' it live
we keepin' it live , we keepin' it live
burn it off the fuckin' internet and bump it outside
look , motherfucker , my words damage and slaughter
a ragin' alcoholic like the president's daughters
disgustin' flow , like third - world - country tap water
but before i hit the border , someone give me a quarter
'cause i'ma prank call cop - shot just for kicks
payback for every time that they called me a spic
and puerto - rican chicks tell me that i fuck like i'm loco
and dominican women call me the " rompe toto "
they call me " ocioso , " i'd rather get fired than quit
i get unemployment , you work , and we makin' the same shit
how dare you niggas criticize the way that i spit ?
you coffee - shop revolutionary son of a bitch !
but you know what the fuck i think is just pathetic and gay ?
when niggas speculate what the fuck 'pac would say
you don't know shit about a dead man's perspective
and talkin' shit'll get your neck bone disconnected
disrespected , niggas don't show no love
why you tryna be hardcore , you fuckin' homo thug ?
and don't be sensitive and angry at the shit that i wrote
'cause if you can take a fuckin' dick , you can take a joke
i'll choke your friends in front of you to prove that you've fallen off
and you won't do shit about it
like the church during the holocaust
kalashnikov machine gun flow that i fire
obnoxious until they shoot me on the day i retire
obnoxious , nigga , murderous lyrics
i know that you hear it
now that i'm gettin' closer and closer , i know that you feel it
you're eatin' off rap , and i hope you choke on your gimmick
niggas said hip - hop was dead , but i'm invokin' the spirit
we takin' it back in the day to the golden age
when wack motherfuckers used to get thrown off stage
immortal technique , i made this to bump in your ride
or burn it off the internet and bump it outside
nigga , we keepin' it live , we keepin' it live
we keepin' it live , we keepin' it live
burn it off the fuckin' internet and bump it outside
damn , homie !
in high school i beat the shit out of you and your man , homie
your girl wanna blow me , and don't even know me
she lonely , and she think you a phony
i take a piss on a development deal from sony
or def jam , 'cause you're like all of the rest , man
this ain't a verse , this is shit - talk at the end of the song
and you can suck a dick if you think i ended it wrong
fuck you and i'm gone , ha ha ha ha !
peace to the stronghold , eow
word - a - mouf , forbidden chapters
iak niggas , wax poe , killin' you slow
the plague , i'll murder a show
you don't even know