first of all , you a blog thug , youtube goon
house nigga ! your food get chewed up rude
i see you like to put your world online
ain't nobody checking for you , they checking for your girl's behind
while your homey in the bedroom , lust in his eyes
while you filming dumb shit , they probably fucked a few times
wow , how you slaughterhouse ? you barely get a nod
i'm convict benching , daily in the yard
so i'm built like optimus prime
you couldn't see me with binoculars
i'm , way ahead of you , obviously i'm better too
deck show him how to properly rhyme
he on mine , like he didn't see the property sign
lyrically blunt , i'm broad day , physically dump
this nigga's life's a publicity stunt
but , he think he fever , i ain't a believer
def jam chucked him , they ain't feel him neither
why are you talking like the morpheus of rhymes ?
when my first shit , sold more than all your shit combined
worshiping tahiry's doing something to your mind
i should get your tummy tucked , just for jumping out of line
man , really ? name me three joe budden songs
don't worry , i got time , i cut the song
oh , oh man , umm , three joe budden songs , umm...
damn , uh , the - - pump it up !
uh , agh - - ahh , shit... this for a hundred thousand , too ?
ahh , i'm bout to blow the shit !
ahh... did i say pump it up ?
oh , oh - - -
still waiting , resident patient , stay sick
basic , the truth's on , face it , taste it
hunt it to the head , make him retract statements
my next move , probably increase your hatred
take it how you take it , hbo bodie
state wide ain't nobody rocking no joey
i'm a legend , meth let you live , i'mma set it
and i ain't on the phone but you get the 'text message'
i'mma rep til the death , with my life put on it
if it's dollars , then it's cents , then i'm likely on it
i'm deep in the pits , where the trife be on it
only hood you be in , got nike on it
house nigga ! you don't see the strips
your fuzzy house shoes underneath your bitch
and i ain't got to talk bout gloria velez
stalker ass nigga , you was calling her , obsessed
computer love scrub , think you safe behind a desk
like we won't call redman and get your address
yeah , yeah , we got a problem , houston
eyes all swoll when the god repute them
like we need ghostwriting , mothafucka , we the titans
you catch your head cracked with no dice , man
hood like the dollar van , taliban carrying bombs
verbal onslaught , warhawk , blowing your flag
throw in your towel , there's no chance , load up the mag
hold down the shao , return home , holding your dome
glorious king , i wish you would
house nigga ! couch gangsta , think you suge ?
nah , you the fiend out , halfway house cat
missing tooth rap , touch deck , i doubt that
" pump it up " was wack , you swagger jacked " scenario "
all that other trash , couldn't last in my stereo
couldn't beat lloyd banks , couldn't beat meth
couldn't beat jay - z , what you got left ?
i show you what substance is ( uncontrolled , nigga ) , ruggedness
like fifty atv's , label me g
you a house nigga ! take your slippers off , microsoft crook
never seen a juks , never seen your wifey cook
never seen you sitting with your seeds reading books
wanna show the mass , that ain't work , so you sold your ass
showed the world you lame and no control you have
you google mc , your feet the only 'sole' you have
act like you strong in the pits , up north
get your manhood took , right along with your kicks
like you got it going on in the bricks , nigga please
only ones know the words to your song is your kids
and this here , won't even boost my career
this is kid's stuff , plus your name ain't big enough
i said 'fuck it , i'd do it for fun'
have 'em like 'damn , deck , why you do it to , son ? '
cause he , stupid or drunk , loose wit the tongue
plus fronting like he want it , should of knew what become
ask around , who dispatching the raw ?
throw our name on the scale , my side probably crash to the floor
cause i'm heavy like the classic ford , before i fall
i will shoot , stab , kick , bite , scratch and claw
i mean fistfight , grab and all , i'mma get like that's for sure
i'mma give right after the brawl
small timers , too late for you to come up
you won't get a name off me , you get done up
house nigga ! you don't get your hands dirty
they don't respect you outside of jersey
they don't respect you outside of jersey , man
nobody fucking knows you
you trying to disrespect the legend
we king size in this shit , man
understand that , i go to mothafucking germany
japan , honolulu , france , ethiopia , croatia
niggas know my mothafucking name
who's you ? who's you ?
they don't respect you outside of jersey
bow down to the face of greatness , mothafucka
yeah , you better recruit everybody
the war is on , nigga , the war is on , nigga
johnny blaze , you know i got you , man
this nigga is fish food , straight up fish food
you wanna swim with the sharks ?
i'm waiting for your response , nigga
five minutes long , next time i'mma give you eight
a dirty eight , straight to the face
holla back , nigga