after battling with his major label for years , 50 cent has decided to become an independent artist.
the rapper announced thursday that he's leaving his longtime record label , universal music group's interscope records , and eminem's imprint , shady/aftermath.
the grammy winner and his g - unit records have signed a distribution agreement with caroline , the independent label at capital music group. capitol is one of the many labels that are part of universal music group.
50 cent launched an ultra - successful , six - times platinum debut with " get rich or die tryin' " in 2003 , when he burst on the music scene with eminem as his mentor. his sophomore album , 2005's " the massacre " was almost as successful , but other albums didn't match his previous efforts and he expressed his unhappiness with his label. 50 cent had been planning to release a fifth album on the label , but it was set with multiple release dates and singles , and eventfully didn't see a release.
his last album was 2009's " before i self destruct , " which also had several release dates.
" i have had great success to date with shady/aftermath/interscope and i'd like to thank eminem and dr. dre for giving me an incredible opportunity , " 50 cent said in a statement. " i've learned so much from them through the years. i am excited to enter this new era where i can carry out my creative vision. "
50 cent had a plethora of hits early in his career that dominated the pop , rap and r&b charts , from " p.i.m.p. " to " candy shop " to the anthemic " in da club , " which introduced the young rapper aside dr. dre and eminem.
" both myself and shady records are grateful to have had the chance to play a part in 50's career , " eminem said in a statement. " shady simply would not be what it is without 50 cent. i've developed a great friendship with 50 over the years , and that's not going to change. we know 50 will have success in his new situation , and we remain supporters of both him and g - unit. "
the rapper , born curtis jackson , has also been a success outside of music , from film roles to fashion to books.
50 cent's new album , " animal ambition , " will be released june 3. caroline has recently distributed albums by korn and rapper e - 40.
( report by abc news )