yeah
you bitch
you motherfucker
you dumb bitch
you stupid motherfucker
you feel me ?
nah
nah , you don't feel me
you know why ?
cause you dead , motherfucker
do you hear me ?
nah
nah , you don't hear me
you know why ?
cause you dead , motherfucker
that's right , that's what you get for fucking with us
fuck you , you dead motherfucker
that's what you get for fucking with us and maino
now we're gonna talk our shit
yeah
not now , but...closer to now
like now !
you don't want beef wit us
or our friend maino !
we bring the streets wit us
our friend maino !
we carry heat wit us
our friend maino !
you can't compete wit us
or our friend maino !
dudes wanna trip , maino will put you in a suitcase
knuckle sandwich all day with a hit of listerine
we cry over spilled milk ; rest in peace , never forgotten
check out your neck while maino revolves it
people get nosy , maino hit 'em with the nasal spray
maino's got fists of fury , and we've got a couple more
me , jeff , and maino , we're one bad motherfucker , for real
you mr. potato head , maino get to mashing
you don't want beef wit us
or our friend maino !
we bring the streets wit us
our friend maino !
we carry heat wit us
our friend maino !
you can't compete wit us
go get 'em , maino !
i don't know the maino that they talking 'bout
cause i don't like problems - - i'd rather talk it out
rather speak to you , so we can squash the beef
i'm not a violent man , and i don't pack heat
i'm a nice guy , i wear glasses now
i'm a different dude , i wouldn't blast you now
and i don't want drama , guess i'm a changed man
church on every sunday - - giving praise , man
see , i'm not a thug ; let's get it understood
live in a big house - - i don't rep the hood
and as a matter of fact , they don't want me back
my friends are businessmen , they not selling crack
wouldn't bust a grape , wouldn't hurt a fly
the shit they rapping 'bout , i'm not that guy
so if you hear this track , please pay no attention
cause they gon' get me killed for all the things they mention
you know , i was doing some thinking. maybe we should be the bigger people and we should apologize
yeah. if nothing else , we have manners
when i said , " you put the 'bitch' in 'obituary , ' i totally didn't mean that. it was taken out of context
when i said that we were gonna put you in the ground and hope that a tree grows out of it , it was done with the best of intentions
look , when i said , 'fuck your life , ' i was talking about the cereal. everyone knows i'm a cheerios guy