sameoldshawn : i wanted to talk about maino for a second , because your first single's with him. for people who haven't heard it yet , the conceit of the song is that you guys talk about your tough friend maino who's gonna solve all your problems...
eric rosenthal , itsthereal : wouldn't you ?
sos : yeah , right. and he comes in at the end of the song and says , i don't know who you think you're dealing with , but i don't do that anymore. it was so funny , and it finds him playing both with and against his tough guy , i - was - in - the - pen image. and he's even in the video in glasses and a pocket protector...
jeff rosenthal , itsthereal : first of all , he was the one who came in with the bow tie and surprised us. he walked in and i go , " you look like louis farrakhan. "
er : he was all about it
sos : so he was game when you approached him with this ?
er : now , here's the thing. he doesn't just do this for anyone
jr : we have a rapport with him. he did an itsthereal video of us where we did a parody of that kid who was talking tough on facebook and then his uncle whipped him with his belt or whatever. so we did a parody of that a couple years ago
er : we've seen him out at different events
jr : but when we were doing this project specifically , he came over to our apartment at 3 am in his bentley. we drove around for an hour listening to our music , and he's just slamming on the gas , going , " you motherfuckers , you got it right ! "
er : so he understands it , and he's hilarious. like , in real life , he's hilarious. he's a very threatening person to everyone except for us. he's really a sweetheart. so we wrote the song with him in mind , we explained the idea to him , and the next day we had our verse. so he's all about it
when the video came to be , shot by rik cordero , he was all about it. like jeff said , he brought the bow tie , he brought the shirt , and he was ready to go. so we're glad that it's gotten a great reaction so far. we're really happy for maino , because it shows a different side to him , where for most of his career it was just like , well , maino's big and bad