human beings in a mob
what's a mob to a king ? what's a king to a god ?
what's a god to a non - believer who don't believe in anything ?
will he make it out alive ? alright , alright , no church in the wild
tears on the mausoleum floor
blood stains the colosseum doors
lies on the lips of a priest
thanksgiving disguised as a feast
rolling in the rolls royce corniche
only the doctors got this , i’m hiding from police
cocaine seats
all white like i got the whole thing bleached
drug dealer chic
i’m wondering if a thug’s prayers reach
is pious pious cause god loves pious ?
socrates asked whose bias do y'all seek ?
all for plato , screech
i’m out here balling , i know y'all hear my sneaks
jesus was a carpenter , yeezy laid beats
hova flow the holy ghost , get the hell up out your seats
preach
human beings in a mob
what's a mob to a king ? what's a king to a god ?
what's a god to a non - believer who don't believe in anything ?
will he make it out alive ? alright , alright , no church in the wild
i live by you , desire
i stand by you , walk through the fire
your love is my scripture
let me into your encryption
coke on her black skin made it stripe like a zebra
i call that jungle fever
you will not control the threesome
just roll the weed up until i get me some
we formed a new religion
no sins as long as there’s permission
and deception is the only felony
so never fuck nobody without telling me
sunglasses and advil
last night was mad real
sun coming up , 5 a.m
i wonder if they got cabs still
thinking 'bout the girl in all leopard
who was rubbing the wood like kiki shepard
two tattoos : one read " no apologies "
the other said " love is cursed by monogamy "
it’s something that the pastor don’t preach
it’s something that a teacher can’t teach
when we die , the money we can’t keep
but we probably spend it all cause the pain ain’t cheap
preach
human beings in a mob
what's a mob to a king ? what's a king to a god ?
what's a god to a non - believer who don't believe in anything ?
will he make it out alive ? alright , alright , no church in the wild