i.. love you ( oh ) and i.. need you ( sing to me kelly )
nelly i.. love you ( this is ) i do ( so , so , def ) neeeeed you ( c'mon )
no matter what i do ( uh - huh ) all i think about is you ( uh - huh )
even when i'm with my boo ( uh - huh ) boy y'know i'm crazy over you ( c'mon )
no matter what i do ( uh - huh ) all i think about is you
even when i'm with my boo , y'know i'm crazy over you ( rock on )
check it , check it , check it , uhh
i met this chick and she just moved right up the block from me
and uhh , she got the hots for me the finest thing my hood done seen
but oh no , oh no , she got a man
and a son , doh'ohhh , but that's okay
cause i , wait for my cue and just listen , play my position
like a shortstop , pick up e'rything mami hittin
and in no time.. ( no time ) i
i better make this one here mi - i - ne.. and that's for sure
cause i , i never been the type to , break up a happy home
but uh , there's somethin bout baby girl i just can't leave alone
so tell me ma what's it gonna be ? she said
{you don't know what you mean to me} c'mon !
uhh , uhh , uhh , uhh
i see a lot and you look and i never say a word
i know how niggas start actin trippin out herre about they girls
and there's no way - ayy - hey , nelly gon' fight over
( i ain't fightin over no dame ) no day - hey - ame.. as you can see
but i , i like your steez , your style , your whole demeanor
the way you come through and holla and swoop me in his 2 - seater
now that's gangstah - ah - ahhh
and i got special ways to thank yah - ah - ahhh.. don't you forget it
but uh , it ain't that easy for you to pack up and leave him
but uh , you and dirty got ties for different reasons
i respect that and right before i turn to leave , she said.. she said
{you don't know what you mean to me} she said.. she said , c'mon !
i.. love you {word ? } and i.. need you
nelly i.. love you , i do.. {c'mon girl}
and it's more than you'll.. ever know
boy.. it's fo'sho'
you can always count on my love {uhh}
foreveeeeer more , yeahh - yeahh
east coast , i know you shakin right , uh - huh
down south , i know you bouncin right , eh - eh
west coast , i know you walkin right , cause
midwest , i see you swingin right
{you don't know what you mean to me}
remix , kelly , nelly , j.d. , ali
now when i met her , she had on her burberry sweater
preppy college girl , graduated , drove a jetta
said she wanna go out but her man wouldn't let her
i said - damn ma , you could be doin so much better
and i - roll up a l on my way to go get her
cause i - get what i want cause nicky sets' a go - getter
and i - took her to the card's and cubs double - header {cause}
then she left her man , i'd approach him with a formal letter like
yeah , yeah
east coast , i know you shakin right , what
down south , i know you bouncin right , dirty dirty like
west coast , i know you walkin right , put your dubs up
midwest , i see you swingin right , whoo !
{you don't know what you mean to me}
east coast , you still shakin right , geah
down south , i see you bouncin right , dirty dirty
west coast , i know you walkin right
midwest , you still swingin right
{you don't know what you mean to meeeee}