after the party it's the waffle house
if you ever been here you know what i'm talkin about
where people don't dance all they do is this
and after the original you know what it is
welcome to atlanta
remix , it had to go down
i got somethin' else to tell you 'bout the new motown
where people don't visit , they move out here
and ain't no tellin' who you might see up in lenox square
i don't know about you but i miss the freaknik
cause that's where my city use to be real slick
people from other cities used to drive for miles
just to come to get a taste of this a.t.l style
i'm the m.b.p. , most ballinest player
make my own moves , call me the mayor
monday night you know things change with time
magic sittin' back lookin' like 89
all the homies on the southside up in the ritz
tuesday night , the velvet room same shit
wednesday strokers i don't go no mo'
cause they don't know how to treat you when you come through the do'
thursday night , was plush but we moved the fuel
and i be up in the booth drunk actin a fool
friday night , at kaya they still got love
and the sharkbar we poppin' like it's a night club
saturday still off the heezy fo' sheezy
you can find me up in one tweezy
sunday gettin' me some sleep , please
i'm on my way to the deck then hittin' jazzy tee's , holla
ayo , i'm from new york man !
representin' n.y.c. to the fullest
i pull it , heads be duckin in new york be bussin
take that
welcome to new york motherfuckers , where we don't play
and out of towners get got like everyday
and a gangstas a gangsta in every way
sittin' low on 22's ; this what long money do
now the don's on it , diddy shine on it
tell flex to run it back and drop a bomb on it
sunday we layin' low at halo , sippin' cris and we straight
monday we go to bungalow 8
tuesday i'm in spa drunk doin' the shake
and for the rest of the week we just follow the freaks
you can spot us out of town by the way that we walk
the way that we talk , cocky the state of new york
hot now top down at the rucker's game
new coupe , no roof playa , what's my name ?
now brooklyn , queens , manhattan , staten
uptown what now ? ! let's make it happen
new york , if you can make it here , you can make it anywhere
we still here ! and we buildin' four more new towers !
who say st. louis ain't hip hop ? dirty we hop to what's hip
i'm a lunatic with too much grip to let a slip
i'm so st. louis , ask my tatooist
i was like " the waterboy , " now they sayin , " you can do it ! "
i'm baby huey one of the best in the louie
sip louie smoke louie , dressed in louis
home of back porches , chucks , and air forces
old school cars be trailblazin' like portland
the girls are the best like travis with fat asses
i call 'em gimme girls they always tell me i can have it
all got habits , marijuana to static
by two cats and coats with automatics
st. louis , the truth like sojourner
don't need a burner we learn from ike turner
i tried to told ya don't cross that bridge
without permission from the st. lunatics
yo , yo , yo , yo
ladies and gentlemen , we got the big snoop dogg in the house tonight
he just came from off tour
and he wanna tell y'all little bit where he come from
palm trees , bad bitches and wannabees
o.g.'s like me eatin on pollaseeds
now & laters , jellybeans , and wallabees
real niggas from the set i hardly ever seen
mostly heard , sell a bird off the cizzurb
and when we dip , we hop and then we swizzerve
a lot of homies like to wear the pizzerm
hair longer than hers , sharp with the fizzur
doggy dizzogg , you know i like to bizzall
like kobe to shaq now take that
take that , take that
long beach is on the mother fuckin map
the city by the sea , r.i.p
jd , you know about the l.b.c
my niggas love the steelers , cold hearted killas
real cap peelas , real niggas feel us
ain't no squeelas , a lot of dope dealers
bang diggy dang dang dogg pound gangsta crip gang
yeah we do the damn thang
go to pomona , scoop up kokane
head to the church house to get a little workout
smoke out , drink up , now put ya bank up
it's all on me i got a scenery to stank up
crank up the beat , raise up the heat
i'm throwin' a block party on 2 - 1 street , fo' sho'
welcome to atlanta remix , hey
and we ride on them things like every day
big beats , hit streets , see gangsters roamin'
and parties don't stop 'til eight in the morning
welcome to atlanta where the players play
and we ride on them things like every day
big beats , hit streets , see gangsters roamin'
and parties don't stop 'til eight in the morning