alright , with so many new tracks featuring jme , i thought i should tackle the big one. this isn’t a feature. this is brand new. in my opinion , this is why people are fans of jme.
i feel like i should say i’ve been into this guy for a fair few years now , one of my friends always said how good he was , but i just wasn’t into uk music at the time. as soon as i heard him though , it was pretty much if it’s not grime , i don’t want to listen to it. i’ve never been disappointed whenever something new came out from the guy. he has definitely progressed as an artist since the boy better know mixtapes , although i still blast tracks like awoh on occasion. that said , the past year or so , everything has been complete fire.
far from wanting to turn this into a 10 , 000 word essay about why the black zeus is likely my favourite artist of all time , i’ll focus on the new track. well , in a minute. first i’ll big up his features on sway’s level up remix and jammer’s big man. alright , now i’ll talk about murking.
yeah , so it is what it is. after the huge , unexpected success that was 96 fuckries , something different was on the pipeline. a huge track that i could see tearing up anything : raves ; clubs ; bars ; nando’s ; farms and morrisons supermarket , this is exactly what i’ve come to expect from the boy better know c.e.o.
the track is instantly recognisable from the hook. pretty much comprised of one word. murking. murking. murking. it’s definitely the right word to use , as this track kills absolutely everything. the bouncing beat comes courtesy from , once again ( like the previously reviewed scrabble from elro ) , birmingham producer preditah. it fits incredibly well , as well as anything i can think of , major props to that man.
it’s jamie’s wordplay which takes this to the next level though. i could pretty much copy and paste the lyrics here and you’d literally be on the floor laughing. i won’t do that though , i want you to finish reading this , so i’ll just give you a few.
“i get withdrawal symptoms from barclays bank”
“tony blair will be £50 overdrawn before i quit”
“everybody totally loved mine and ed sheeran’s track , maybe because ginger is an anagram of black”
you know , at the time of writing , i haven’t even heard the hq version , just a rip from logan’s #kissgrime ( get that trending worldwide again ) show , and i know the majority of the lyrics already.
i mean , you put all of that together , and you’ve got a winner , haven’t you ? i haven’t said anything negative at all , have i ? the only thing i can think of is that i missed the video shoot. i wish i could have been there , but it just wasn’t possible. as soon as that drops , every time i watch it , i’m going to think about how i should have been there. never mind , i suppose i’ll get over it. when i don’t know what grime is. when i’m 86.
you know what it is. it’s sick. it’s hard. it’s murking. go listen to it. buy it when it comes out. whatever , just make sure you hear it. by the way , jamie , i’m waiting on that elbow drop track you previewed on ustream ages ago man. i haven’t forgotten.
-
okay , so continuing the two review tradition of getting feedback from the artists , i got the man himself jme to give me a shout about the review.
sick rt @thom___ : ay man , don't know if you gota chance to check this out , if you do , it would be greatly appreciated haterzeverywhere.tumblr.com/post/235467117…
— jme ( jamie adenuga ) ( @jmebbk )
may 24 , 2012
@thom___ elbow drop is after the track i’ve done with wiley called “banger”
— jme ( jamie adenuga ) ( @jmebbk )
may 24 , 2012
i’m happy now. if i was younger , i’d probably put a happy emoticon here. i’m not going to though , this is a very serious thing i’ve got going here. that’s it. goodbye.
-
woiiiiiiiiii , the official video is out now. if you haven’t seen it yet , jump on board. yessir. this is so sick.