i'm right here per your request , now you stuck in them shoes
no alliances with meek , it's still fuck him too
before we start , to the fans , i'm uncomfortable too
stuck in the booth feelin' like y'all cause i got love for the dude
but now my phone blowin' up , they're like what i'm gonna do ?
show the world you shouldn't poke a man with nothin' to lose
all of this just because i wasn't in love with his views
whatever happened , i just know they got me fuckin' confused , hey
mic check , mic check
one two , one two
wait a minute !
drake : i'm happy , i'm honored... i'm , i'm , i'm honored to be around you , man
joe budden : yo c'mon , c'mon , c'mon , c'mon , c'mon , c'mon , c'mon
drake : okay so i can't be honest on your network here ? i can't be honest to your fans and say i'm honored to be around you ?
joe budden : it ain't an honor to be around me !
drake : we all used to listen to you so i don't even... you need to learn how to take compliments. don't say that in vain , he's one of the best. you know that , right ?
other person : what up ? what up ?
drake : i said don't say it in vain , you know he's one of the best
other person : nah it's all love
new joe budden !
look , enough of the sentimental crap
cool if you into that
fuck all of these subs , who they intended at ?
i won't believe it's me without forensic facts
they don't normally mention black when pennin' their raps
but then i listen back , i heard a pinch of sass
tender ass teddy come around , he gon' get pinned to grass
i come around with every inch of the mag
i'm a wordsmith forreal , you thought quentin was bad
you made me proud , lad , but it seems my child mad
with all the clout that he grabbed , it's still doubts from his dad
look , this ain't promotional , you just emotional
no doubt you got starbucks , with all that joe in you
i part his reign lightnin' fast , just what joseph do
a black cloud all over the 6 , check the overview
you're so indirect , shit wasn't real clear
either jimmy actin' or he really miss a wheelchair
what he don't know is we the most kindred of souls
i should've did this two kendricks ago
he wanna sing ? well let's get into the show , commence my role
for jodeci , boyz ii men , we at the end of the road
i figure he's that close to his death to know the reaper
in fitted sweats with old sneakers , the flow ether
gassed cause he ko'd omeeka , no joe's deeper
quick to put extension on singer , that's moesha
nothin' 'bout rick slick , but show of the caesar
my crust from the same old pizza as mona lisa
so how you callin' out the lyrical god ?
your face light up when you see me , talkin' miracle watts
cause your words ain't sayin' a thing
i kilogram without weighin' a thing
nigga you baitin' a king
tell you the way that golden state say to it's team
aubrey you gotta make a shot , you wanna play on the wing
dem a call me a murderer
i never duck , just spray
i'ma never miss mi aim
dem a call me a murder
there's some truth in that saying
dem a call me a murder
nobody seen nothing , nobody seen nothing
what i see , ayy
look here , i just spit the facts , raging aristocrat
shooters heard them words , wanna get rid of that
when they roll up , bet dude won't wanna live his raps
he'll see the 6 upside down and wanna switch it back
wrath of a god sinner
i'm too real , i bet your star's tender
i bet a mil' , i'll bet a star tender
but since the og's hov , here's what i wanna know
if ain't no real niggas allowed the fuck would i wanna go ?
that's thinkin' back to jay , now let's get back to drake
both too big to respond to all i have to say
still with all their success and all their accolades
the universe makes it so they come right back to me
here's a reminder that we go way back
i mean um , you know for me the kid is practice , hova
i make these words flip as if they practice yoga
okay practice over , back to blacklist hova
nothin' personal , this red reddington
shawn , i don't work for you , still i'm doin' the work for you
payback , wire his jaw , reimbursin' you
metal all behind his face , sprite commercial you
might have made a mistake out of this one
can't bell biv devoe your way out of this one , nah
so , warn your damn campaign that hammers rang
i just bought a new edition , you can't stand the rain
y'all say this soft nigga hard and that , i can't explain
y'all think he's soul for real , i see candy rain
so aubrey when you sub real mcs , you get murdered
and since you signed to five guys , makes you a burger
dem a call me a murderer
i never duck , just spray
i'ma never miss mi aim
dem a call me a murder
nobody seen nothing , nobody seen nothing
what i see , ayy
real quick , i don't wanna talk too long. i think you misconstrued the boundaries of this relationship and this friendship. which in return , has caused me to do the exact same thing. i don't understand how you niggas , and how you in particular , how you can fuck shorty and i dap you and say you a real nigga , and i critique your album and all of a sudden we sensitive. i don't understand how you new niggas work. maybe i'm out of touch with the rules of today's society. i'm clearing all that. now let me paint who i am before i allow another nigga to do it for me
i'm from the school of pussy don't get me punch drunk
maybe it's different in the city you come from , look
i'm from the school of these hoes belong to everybody
no celeb exempt , goes for everybody
so when i seen you fucked shorty , not a bitter bone in me
i ain't think of how to handle the plan
said i'm aware , have fun , understand that it's , fam
told that to you and not her , that's just the man that i am
my nigga , kids got no respect
odd cause you called me for the hoe check on every hoe you checked
that makes sense , bad bitches , that's what joe do best
and i's the man 'round these parts when they ain't know you yet
which kinda makes me your og in toronto
and i ain't charge once , that's for free in toronto
i'm unsure how that came to be in toronto
nigga i don't even be in toronto
when it rains it pours
all that means , dog , get please get a poncho
subs fell short like a free throw from rondo
so rude , he gay , so mean with all the budden threats
as soon as we shoot at king , demarcus cousins' next
this shit is truly a movie
you started a trend bein' a groupie for groupies
shit , i had bria in the coupe and out her way
before you ever wrote an interlude about her
so who you playin' with , clown
i'm first shift at the bars , so only means i already made them rounds
they say that he the best mc and best flow'er
he cook better than me but you love my leftovers
fire the kill shot , the fire still hot
word to your versace velours that kyra still got
you playin' chess with the chrome of the pump
let it blast , checkered past , shoulda known from the jump
it's whatever you wanna roll , executives got your soul
sedatives , i'm repetitive with those records , show for
regular joe , sellin' records was never the goal
i never sold records , i kept records of what was sold
might have made a mistake out of this one
day's long , can't trey songz your way out of this one
so don't worry yourself , and before i go
fuck a record label , i appear courtesy of myself , joe