they say i’m comin’ too hard , huh ? {chea - heh}
i say these niggas comin’ too soft {yeah}
all them niggas soft {yeah}
niggas over there are soft {whoooo}
i sold that brick soft ( huh ) , this ysl , so soft ( huh )
my girl ass so soft ( huh ) , these louis shoes so soft ( huh )
you ho niggas so soft ( huh ) , my ak for assaults ( huh )
i’m sippin’ this sauce , my dick won’t stay soft
my car seats so soft , these heat tags say “boss”
you ho niggas so soft , you ho niggas so soft
soft , haha , whoooo...
my car seats so soft ( soft ) , your army so soft ( soft )
real nigga and she like me ‘cause i make sure she get off
these niggas claimin’ they winnin’ but when i’m around they lost ( lost )
i’m in a new car , four door ( yep ) , double r , logo ( yep )
big rims , no spokes , small tires , low - pro ( ahhh )
you pussies know that i’m no joke ( uh - uh ) , how you want it ? 4 - o ? ( uh )
four four for cinco , no ocho , just blow - blow~ ! !
still duckin’ the po - po , i make her come back like a yo - yo
i’m like ice - t with that white girl , still gettin’ money off coco ( haha )
still flyer than all y’all , shit tell me somethin’ i don’t know
got a bad bitch bouncin’ on my stick like a pogo , screamin’ yolo
my diamonds be shinin’ , like a snow cone , i’m so froze
far as that dough goes i’m russell simmons , you jojo
my type get real cash , your type get killed fast
y’all niggas like soft booty - get it ? real ass
you ho niggas so soft , why don’t you hoe niggas get lost ?
i’ll pay to see you gone , how much you hoe niggas gon’ cost ?
i sold that brick soft ( huh ) , this ysl , so soft ( huh )
my girl ass so soft ( huh ) , these louis shoes so soft ( huh )
you ho niggas so soft ( huh ) , my ak for assaults ( huh )
i’m sippin’ this sauce , my dick won’t stay soft
my car seats so soft , these heat tags say “boss”
you ho niggas so soft , you ho niggas so soft {*3x*}
man , you ho niggas so soft..
right back in the hood , fresh off tour , jumpin’ out that new four - door
bust down , ap offshore , all this stuntin’ ain’t called for
none of these bitches ain’t all yours ( nah ) , none of these niggas hardcore ( nah )
young fly nigga , i’m fresh , man ; bad bitch with me at sophomore
my rolex is like mayweather’s , i make it rain like mayweather
ask them hoes at kod - i don’t throw paper , i spray cheddar
your whip mean ? mine way better , chicks they greet and love me
up in the corner and hug me , go all these hoes tryin’ to fuck me
cause that leather handle so soft ( soft ) , all i know is go hard ( hard )
high as fuck , i’m on mars ; my pockets on black card
cause it ain’t no limit ( ain’t no limit ) to the shit i’m spendin’ ( shit i’m spendin’ )
it’s double - m - g ( double - m - g ) , yeah nigga , we winnin' - hah~ !
yeah , yeah , nice...
i’m in the hood with that white thing - mister softee
tell them kids don’t run up - got it on me , now get ‘em off me
get ‘em off me , get ‘em off me , before i make it hot like coffee
just seen ‘em put a hole - in - one and i ain’t gon’ let ‘em golf me
got a o - z of that loudmouth ( yeah ) , my smoke never speak softly ( uh )
ride on that dick flow , my bitch never go off - beat ( whoo )
only time that i’m off feet , known to stand on my own two
if you ‘round me , you gotta go hard - soft niggas i don’t do
these niggas ain’t family ; if you was , i would’ve disowned you
and fucked bitches that won’t do ( yeah ) , call a bitch who want to ( yeah )
gotta feel me , my texture ( feel me ) , these dumb bitches too extra ( feel me )
i just kicked this bitch up off the bus , had to “next” her ( feel me )
i’m too strong in these streets , boy , please don’t make me flex up
you know nothin’ ‘bout this , i do this , i’m a expert
dvs go off , like the tvs in my loft
that’s hd on my ht , these ho niggas so soft…