larry : ( to everyone at the meeting ) and now this actress is having problems getting another series because everybody. everybody sees her as evelyn
lane michaelson : oh , i see
julia : right , they are wanting to bring evelyn back
larry : yea
julia : she can't get away from it
larry : in fact , the series could be called , aren't you evelyn ?
julia : or , i'm not evelyn. something like that.
larry : it's funny right ?
lane michaelson : i , i am just so excited about this
larry : really ?
lane michaelson : this is wonderful
larry : oh good.
lane michaelson : this is great.
julia : oh , thank you. good.
lane michaelson : i mean i'm not surprised because i knew you were going to come in here with something brilliant you did.
larry : it's very funny.
lane michaelson : i , i am just so excited.
jeff : ( to larry ) hey , what's with you and the water ?
larry : ( holding the water bottle up ) doctor's orders i'm dehydrated or something and i got to drink eight , eight of these a day , constantly running to the bathroom.
lane michaelson : the other thing is that jason is going to be working with us as well.
julia : jason...
abc executive : alexander
julia : alexander ! you're kidding me !
lane michaelson : no !
abc executive : isn't that great ?
julia's manager : well that will be great
julia : what's he doing ?
lane michaelson : well it's about a motivational speaker and...
larry : when did that happen ?
lane michaelson : oh , umm pass few weeks. we've had a few meeting and uh we're very close to having it happen.
julia : that's going to be...
larry : where did you meet if i may ask ?
lane michaelson : uh , here.
larry : he came here ?
lane michaelson : yes , jason , here. yea. but , four meeting now and such a wonderful actor
julia : yea , nothing like him. greatest guy.
julia's manager : and they will be so different from how they were on seinfeld that...
lane michaelson : so , i'm just thrilled about this.
larry : you like it ?
lane michaelson : i just think this is grand , this is green light , huhu.
julia's manager : oh !
lane michaelson : absolutely.
julia's manager : that's good to know.
lane michaelson : i am so excited about this
larry : well , we're delighted.
lane michaelson : thank you , thank you.
julia : that's good
abc executive : thrilled !
julia : thank you
abc executive : i am so pleased !
larry : yea.
lane michaelson : so , now that you're all apart of the abc family...
larry ; oh ! well.
lane michaelson : we're having a screening of harriet beecher stow
jeff : oh my god ! ...
lane michaelson : tonight.
jeff : my umm wife's good friend was the art director on that i heard it was great.
lane michaelson : oh , how is susie ?
jeff : ah , we split up , uh i'm living in a hotel
lane michaelson : oh , i'm sorry to hear that.
jeff : don't be ! it's great.
lane michaelson : but , it's a wonderful mini series part one is tonight part two is tomorrow night.
abc executive : it's just beautifully shot
larry : really ?
lane michaelson : love you to come.
julia : the only thing is my older umm kid has pink eye so...
lane michaelson : oh
julia : i mean it's not contagious but you...
lane michaelson : sorry. you'll come larry.
larry : yea. sure.
abc executive : great.
jeff : yea , we'll go , sure.
lane michaelson : and afterwards we're going to have something at the house ann's preparing and you can come along , alright ?
larry : ok
jeff : ok good , we'll see you there.
lane michaelson : alright
larry : what's the difference between harriet beecher stow and harriet tubbman ?
new scene : larry and cheryl in the abc headquarters theater lobby.
larry : you know i think we might be do for some sex tonight.
cheryl : you think ?
larry : i do.
cheryl : you were going to pencil that in you didn't tell me.
jeff : hey.
larry : hey.
jeff : i think is it about to start. you guys going in over here ?
larry : yea.
jeff : i saw susie walking over there so i'm going to go in over there. i am not here.
larry : haven't seen you.
jeff : have not seen me. alright bye , talk to you later.
cheryl : yea , he's hard to miss
lane michaelson : larry , larry i am so glad you were able to make it.
larry : hi
lane michaelson : ( to cheryl ) hi , i am lane michaelson
cheryl : hi
lane michaelson : how do you do ? nice to meet you.
larry : this is the abc guy
lane michaelson : let me just say again we are so happy to have your husband on board. listen , we're going to see you tonight...
larry : yes
lane michaelson : at the house , right
larry : yes at the house
lane michaelson : anne's gonna want to see you so please
larry : really ?
lane michaelson : yes , ok , take care...
larry : ok
lane michaelson : have a great time , enjoy the show
larry : alright
cheryl : thank you , geese i'm exhausted. wow , he must have a lot on his mind tonight.
larry : a lot of coffee that man
cheryl : ( laughing ) he was in like such a hurry
amy : ( to larry ) excuse me , there's no food or drink in the theater i'm sorry.
cheryl : oh.
larry : ( looking down at his water bottle ) really ? i got like a condition i really like need to have this.
amy : you're gonna have to finish it out here i'm sorry.
larry : ( to cheryl ) ok why don't you go in and...
cheryl : get a seat ,
larry : get a seat...
cheryl : ok i'll see you
larry : in there
cheryl : ok
larry : great ( to amy ) you know , what if i have a really bad kidney thing i'm not...
amy : maybe you should finish it outside
larry : yea maybe , maybe i should.
cheryl : you like these seats ?
larry : ( to cheryl ) wow ! great seats !
cheryl : i'm getting you the aisle considering all the water you've had.
larry : oh
cheryl : just in case
larry : yea , this is great , what a nice little theater
cheryl : yea , it's beautiful.
larry : ( to cheryl ) is that the same women that just told me to get rid of the water ?
cheryl : yea , i think it is.
larry : what's the deal ? what is she doing ? does she work here ? or is she a guest ?
cheryl : yea , i thought he was working
larry : me too ( larry to amy ) excuse me.
cheryl : larry.
larry : excuse me.
amy : yea
larry : do you work here ?
amy : no.
larry : how come you told me to , to get rid of the water then ?
amy : i saw you coming in with water , there's no water , it's the rules.
larry : i don't understand how it’s your concern , you don't work here.
amy : it's the rules !
larry : rules ?
amy : the sign says no food or drink in the theater , i'm sure we would all like to have water.
larry : oh yea , we’re all dieing of thirst. are , what are you the hallway monitor here ?
amy : who are you that the rules don't apply ?
larry : i'm , i'm applying the golden rule , are you ?
amy : i don't think the golden rule...
larry : yea
amy : applies here.
larry : if you had water would you want me to tell you not to bring it in , i don't think so.
amy : how about common curtisy bud.
larry : oh
amy : a little common curtisy.
larry : that doesn't supersede the golden rule. that’s the big one.
amy : ( shouting ) you're nuts !
larry : you're , you're nuts
cheryl : ( to larry ) alright.
amy : jackass.
larry : ( to no one ) don't , don't bring any pens or pencils in
amy : loser.
larry : excuse me mrs. janitor we’ve got homework , you forgot to give us homework.
amy : sorry , some people are just rude.
larry : and she's sitting there , now , is she a guest ?
cheryl : does she work there ?
larry : does she work there ?
cheryl : yea
larry : she's just some person...
jeff : that's insane.
larry : she wouldn't let me bring it in , we had this huge fight. she's right there.
larry : there she is , she’s right there , on the right.
jeff : she's talking to anne michaelson , you know lane michaelson's wife. that's her , that's who she's talking to.
cheryl : oh.
larry : that’s lane michaelson's wife ?
jeff : that's lane michaelson's wife.
larry : well.
jeff : ahh , you know. so tomorrow night you guys wanna go to dinner before part two ?
cheryl : ummmmmmm
larry : no.
cheryl : well , i do wanna go to part two
larry : no.
jeff : you gotta go to part two , you're a part of the abc family !
cheryl : yea , we're definitely going to part two.
larry : yea , but we're not going to dinner with you though.
cheryl : we , we've already made plans.
jeff : that's alright.
larry : we don't have any plans , we just don't wanna go to dinner with you.
cheryl : thank you.
waitress : frozen margaritas.
larry : frozen margaritas ? thank you.
jeff : you gotta go. actually i wanna go cause she showed a lot of cleavage for that time ...
cheryl : ( to jeff ) stop it !
jeff : in that time i don't think they wore it that low and she's really was a little much if you ask me.
cheryl : i guess they didn't worry cleavage.
cheryl : must not be from...
larry : oh , ah. cold ! chest freeze !
cheryl : larry.
larry : chest freeze ! oh !
jeff : he's ok
anne michaelson : ( to larry ) put your tongue to the top of your month. no , no , your tongue to the top of your mouth. like this ,
like this
lane michaelson : ( to larry ) are you alright ?
larry : oh ! oh !
jeff : you gotta go. chest freeze , chest freeze.
lane michaelson : oh , i see. yea.
larry : it was too cold , sorry.
anne michaelson : ( to larry ) would you like some hot tea or something like that ?
larry : it , it will go away.
lane michaelson : so anne , you've met larry ?
anne michaelson : umm , no i haven't met larry , but i've heard a lot about you.
larry : hello. hi very nice to.
lane michaelson : larry , anne.
cheryl : cheryl
lane michaelson : cheryl
anne michaelson : hi.
cheryl : hi. nice to meet you.
jeff : and uh i'm jeff green , we met uh
anne michaelson : oh ! hi.
jeff : how are you ?
larry : is there a bathroom i could use ?
lane michaelson : yea , right down there
larry : right down there ?
lane michaelson : yea , just to the right. just go down there.
jeff : i would like to thank your producer or director or whoever because they revealed that much boozzum.
larry : ( to tara ) hello.
tara : oh. hi.
larry : ( pointing to a door ) is that a bathroom ?
tara : umm. yea. why , you have to go potty ?
larry : yea , i do have to go potty.
tara : you can go in there.
larry : oh , ok.
larry : well , thank you.
tara : oh , you're welcome.
larry : what are you doing ?
tara : oh , i'm just brushing my doll's hair.
larry : oh , yea , what's her name ?
tara : judy.
larry : judy ! , judy ! judy !
larry : boy , she's got pretty long hair.
tara : yea.
larry : yea
tara : do you think maybe it's too long ?
larry : it's kinda long.
tara : yea , do you think you could give it a haircut ?
larry : you want me to give it a haircut ?
tara : ( nodding ) can you ?
larry : i guess.
tara : ok
larry : see this thing ?
tara : yea hu.
larry : it's called a swiss army knife
tara : mu hm.
larry : you heard of switzerland ?
tara : um , yea.
larry : it's a country in europe and they don't like to fight.
tara : hu !
larry : they let everybody do their fighting for them while they ski and eat chocolate.
tara : ( pointing to the dolls hair ) umm , about right there.
larry : oh you wanna give it a little kinda dorothy hamilton ? huh ?
tara : yea.
larry : boy , she's got really thick hair.
tara : uh hu. at least it will be shorter.
larry : uh hu. um. alright. oh yea !
tara : she looks much prettier.
larry : i think so too , look at that ! i really think i did a great job.
tara : yea you did a great job.
larry : yea , now i take her out !
tara : yea , now this is definitely more ways to brush and it looks great.
larry : can i tell you something ? it's a very french look.
tara : ha - ha.
larry : it's very french.
tara : she looks prettier.
larry : good luck judy ! ! !
tara : thank you.
cheryl : larry. there's no lock on that bathroom door ,
larry : i know.
cheryl : that's crazy.
larry : i know. it's insane. that's your top priority in a house
cheryl : in the bathroom.
larry : yea , of course.
cheryl : will you guard the door while i go ?
larry : sure.
cheryl : tow minutes.
tara : ( running down the stairs ) ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh ! mommy , mommy , mommy.
anne michaelson : tara ! what is it ?
tara : look , at my doll's hair !
anne michaelson : why did you cut her hair off. ?
tara : ( pointing to larry ) i didn't cut it , he did. he cut it ?
anne michaelson : ( to larry ) is this true ?
larry : yea , well , she asked me , she asked me to give it a haircut
tara : it's true mommy.
anne michaelson : you walked into my daughter’s room and you cut her judy's hair ?
tara : it's not fair ! !
larry : well , she asked me to give it a haircut
anne michaelson : uh hu , and did you happen to tell her that maybe it wouldn't grow back
amy : he didn't tell her it would grow back.
tara : it won't grow back !
larry : i thought it was understood.
anne michaelson : ( to larry ) how could you not understand that a little girl has a vivid imagination , she's extremely gifted
cheryl : ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh !
lane michaelson : i'm sorry.
tara : i hate that doll's hair
anne michaelson : that a little girl doesn't know that her doll's hair is not going to grow back.
larry : really ?
anne michaelson : you know who this is ? this is judy
larry : i thought
anne michaelson : she is a collectors item , were not going to be able to finds another one like this
larry : i can , i will , i
anne michaelson : i got this doll before she was born.
larry : well , i can replace it , i'm sure i can.
anne michaelson : oh you can replace it ? this is lisle liberty the beanie baby , out of production , oop. ok. not coming back.
tara : it's never gonna grow back.
anne michaelson : ( grabbing the dolls hair ) what is that ?
larry : i guess i missed a strand there. umm , i can...
tara : it's ugly mommy ! ! ! !
larry : ( pulling out his swiss army knife ) i can get that , let me get that , i got a swiss army knife , i can get that.
tara : it's all cause , the haircuts ugly ! ! !
anne michaelson : let’s go tara.
larry : i , i , she said it looked earlier , she liked it.
amy : not a surprise.
larry : i thought it was understood , that
jeff : larry.
larry : this is , go ahead. jesus christ. who doesn't know that when you cut a doll's hair it doesn't grow back.
jeff : she should know better
larry : i thought the doll looked better to tell you the truth.
jeff : i dunno , i haven't seen it before.
larry : you seen the haircut , i gave it ? well , it was ugly , it was way down to her waist.
jeff : what’s the doll's name , judy ?
larry : yea.
jeff : i may be able to help you with this , ok , my daughter has a huge doll collection , her room is filled with dolls. i think she might have that judy doll.
larry : you think she's got a judy doll.
jeff : sounds familiar to me , not positive , we can go in tomorrow , zip in , zip out , boom.
larry : would she miss the doll ? if...
jeff : no ! ! , my daughter's not going to care , she's not going to miss the difference , she hasn't played with it in a long time. anyhow , we go by the house tomorrow , we'll check it out.
larry : yea , i mean otherwise , you know this is ugly
jeff : i know
larry : i mean i just got this deal here...
jeff : i mean the whole abc deal could go down the drain , it really could.
cheryl : honestly , i have never been so humiliated in my life , really.
larry : i fucked up.
cheryl : are you trying to be funny now ? because.
larry : no , i fucked up.
cheryl : i am really not in the mood.
larry : i fucked up.
cheryl : yea , michaelson really knows me , he knows a lot about me.
larry : well , what did he see exactly ?
cheryl : uhhh , everything. exactly. ok. like imagine the worse moment a person could walk in on somebody..
larry : ok. got it
cheryl : you think you’re alone...
larry : i got , i got
cheryl : and you’re in the bathroom
larry : i , i got it.
cheryl : yea.
larry : i got it.
cheryl : that's what it was.
larry : i got it.
cheryl : i cannot risk running into him at social functions , at your little abc parties , and screenings , i think you’re just going to have to go somewhere else.
larry : are you out of your mind ? you want to end the deal because of this ?
cheryl : yea i do.
larry : we can't go to nbc anymore because of you’re uh , environmental problems with general electric , hbo , you know what happened with them. this , we're running out !
cheryl : well , that’s your fault.
larry : well , i got news for you , you might not have to worry because it could all be moot.
cheryl : why ?
larry : because if i don't replace the doll it's over.
larry : divorce ? is it a divorce ?
cheryl : yea , it's a divorce so start packing up cause you’re moving out.
larry : huh ?
cheryl : i wish you wouldn't talk anymore tonight.
larry : come on , you...
cheryl : i wish you would say one more thing to me.
jeff : susie ?
larry : hey you sure you wanna do this ?
jeff : i'm positive , come on.
larry : you don't think sammy's gonna mind , she's not going to notice ?
jeff : she's got a million dolls , she's not gonna notice anything.
jeff : here we are in doll world. dolls here , here , here. look at all these.
larry : wow !
jeff : you have no idea on how much money i’ve spent on dolls.
larry : holy cow ! look at this.
jeff : i know. ( holding up a doll ) this isn't judy , is it ? right of the top.
larry : this ? no i think judy's hair was lighter.
jeff : ok. well.
larry : she looks
jeff : she looks like judy. she looks...
larry : what’s up here ? it all of this..
jeff : yep more dolls.
larry : there’s dolls up here ?
jeff : yea , just go through. judy ! ! ! ! ! ! ! judy , judy , there you go !
larry : no
jeff : yes it is , of course it is
larry : no , no , it's not her.
jeff : that's judy !
larry : no , it's not judy.
jeff : i've seen judy , that’s judy , i am telling...
larry : no , no judy , judy has brown eyes
jeff : no ! ! ! ! !
larry : she has blue eyes
jeff : oh , you don't know the eyes !
larry : no , i do know the eyes cause...
jeff : come on ! i've seen my daughter call her judy !
larry : sweet judy brown eyes i said it in my head.
jeff : you said sweet judy brown eyes ?
larry : yes , i know the song was sweet judy blue eyes and she has brown eyes. it's brown eyes. that’s not judy.
jeff : wow , sweet judy brown eyes , holy shit ! where the , some of these doll's are scary. bunch of bald ones up here.
larry : judy.
jeff : what ?
larry : judy ! ! ! see there !
jeff : yea !
larry : judy ! ! ! ! !
jeff : judy ! !
jeff : oh my god ! what are you , here.
larry : oh
larry : needed this
jeff : susie's here !
larry : oh , shit !
susie : ( yelling form downstairs ) jeffery !
larry : what do i do ?
jeff : stick it in your jacket.
susie : ( still downstairs ) jeffery !
larry : it's too big. where do i put it ?
jeff : do something ! she's coming up.
jeff : give this to me
susie : ( still downstairs ) jeffery i saw your car , what the fuck are you doing here ? you’re supposed to call first. jeffery.
jeff : so what you want to be doing...
larry : uh uh
jeff : is , is you need to drill
larry : yea
susie : what...
larry : hi susie.
susie : is going on here ?
larry : hi.
susie : what are you doing here ?
jeff : the amount of sleep that i've lost thinking...
susie : what are you doing here ! !
jeff : listen and i'll tell you ! sammy's shelf has been on my mind , i've always thought this shelf was loose and i came here and i pushed it and tested it , all the dolls fell right there.
susie : jeffery , why don't i believe you ?
jeff : i dunno.
susie : what the hell are you doing here ? in sammy's room of all places , and you brought larry to help you with the shelf.
larry : i know a lot about shelving. i , i put up all the shelves in my house and...
susie : you put the shelves up in you’re , i find that hard to believe.
jeff : he knows a lot about shelving.
larry : no , i put them all up and i was going to...
susie : mr. california closets over here all of a sudden
larry : check the his shelves here
susie : look , get the hell , leave , leave , and by the way , what ? you didn't think i saw you at the screening last night ? you think i didn't notice you , huh , fat fuck trying to hide like your mr. inconspicuous. get out !
larry : ( to susie ) are you going back tonight for part two ?
susie : i might be.
larry : well what do you think ? you think this is gonna work ?
jeff : i hope it works , it was painful.
larry : so you don't think michaelson's wife , she's , do you think she , she's not going to have a problem with this. with the head , just the head.
jeff : that's fine
larry : huh ?
jeff : she's got the body , it's fine.
larry : we'll just attach it.
jeff : attach the head.
larry : yea. good. that's fine , boy it's starting to itch me down there.
sammy : ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh !
susie : what's wrong ? sammy , darling !
sammy : mommy , somebody cut off judy's head !
anne michaelson : yea ?
larry : judy. i got judy.
anne michaelson : where's her body ?
larry : it didn't come with a body.
anne michaelson : uh hu.
anne michaelson : is this an authentic judy ?
larry : believe me , that is judy.
anne michaelson : alright , well uh why don't you come in and i'll go upstairs and make sure it fits.
larry : oh believe me it's gonna fit.
anne michaelson : well , we'll just see about that.
larry : may i use your bathroom ?
anne michaelson : yea.
anne michaelson : ( pointing ) right there.
larry : oh.
locksmith : hey , how ya doing ?
larry : good , what are you doing ? putting a lock in ?
locksmith : yea , a new lock.
larry : oh , beautiful. excellent.
locksmith : go ahead.
larry : ok , um h , don't , don't leave your post , ok ?
locksmith : ok , sure.
larry : great. oh , that’s great.
anne michaelson : i think she's fixed.
larry : oh , terrific.
anne michaelson : so , thank you , thank you
larry : you’re welcome.
anne michaelson : i appreciate...
larry : your very welcome , and uh again i'm just sorry about the whole thing and cutting it , but...
anne michaelson : well , you think this is going to be ok ? do you think she's going to notice the difference.
larry : no , she'll never know the difference , really. i mean if she does you should enroll her in some kinda school for gifted children.
anne michaelson : well , she's already at merman , she is gifted , she's highly gifted.
larry : oh.
anne michaelson : we might not be able to pull it off.
larry : yea , it's a shame she didn't know that the was gonna grow back. yea. cause , she's a bright girl.
anne michaelson : she has a vivid imagination
larry : no , i’m sure she does. umm , anyway , so again i’m sorry , you , you'll be at part two ?
anne michaelson : yea , i'll be there.
larry : yea , ok. great , alright all well that ends well.
anne michaelson : bye - bye
larry : you don't think she actually looked good with the short hair ?
larry : oh.
jeff : oh , shit !
larry : oh , no.
susie : where's the head ? i know you took the doll's head where is it ? where's the fucking head ! !
jeff : i , i dunno.
susie : the kids at home hysterical because her doll , judy , has been decapitated , cause you two sickos took the head for god knows what reason , some voodoo shit you're doing , where is it ?
susie : stop scratching your balls and tell me where it is. alright just get me the fucking head , alright , get me the fucking head , alright , both of you i've had it , you four - eyed fuck and you fat piece
of shit , get me the head !
jeff : i didn't need that , man she's nuts.
larry : what are we going to do now ?
jeff : i can drive back to the michaelson's.
larry : i don't think she's gonna give us the head back.
jeff : no , i guess not.
jeff : what are you doing ?
larry : my penis itches me. hey , maybe , maybe , um , maybe , she's got the short haired version , we can get the short haired judy back.
jeff : yea.
larry : she may have thrown it out.
jeff : nah , we were just there.
larry : what about giving the short haired version back to susie and your daughter ?
jeff : they won't know the difference.
larry : your daughter's not going to know the hair was cut.
jeff : my daughter and or susie are not going to know the difference
larry : you think so ?
jeff : i know we can get away with it.
larry : jesus christ ! my penis is itching !
jeff : you know what ? you put that doll head down there and who knows what that hair is made our of , you've got a allergic reaction , i’m telling you.
larry : yea , i think i got some kinda rash , i gotta check out my penis , i have to go to the doctor now ? that's going to be
a lot of fun , where’d you get the rash ? oh , i stuck a doll's head down my pants , dr. it feels good to me !
larry : hi , i'm sorry to bother you , um , i was wondering , this is gonna sound crazy , do you have the short haired head ? the one that i cut.
anne michaelson : right. you , you want the short haired judy head ?
larry : yea.
anne michaelson : why would you want that short haired judy head ?
larry : i kinda , like it.
anne michaelson : you know what ? i dunno , i'll go up there and see if it's there.
larry : thank you , i would appreciate it.
anne michaelson : fine.
larry : thank you.
anne michaelson : wait right here.
larry : um , may i use your bathroom ?
anne michaelson : yea , it's right...
larry : i know.
amy : oh.
larry : ( to the locksmith ) hey , the lock's not working.
locksmith : oh , i know , i had to go get some parts.
larry : oh , great !
larry : oh ! ! hey , look at this !
anne michaelson : it's your lucky day.
larry : ok , great , thank you so much.
anne michaelson : ok.
larry : the short hair , it's very becoming. i think , you know ?
anne michaelson : right , fine , good.
larry : ok , umm , hey see ya tonight part two.
anne michaelson : right.
amy : you are not going to believe what i just saw.
susie : oh , ok. she's your daughter too you know. alright. something’s not right here.
jeff : that's the head.
larry : that's the head.
susie : this is the head ?
larry : that's judy.
jeff : that's judy.
susie : this is not the head , this is not the , something’s...
jeff : sure , it's the head.
larry : that's the head.
susie : are you sure ?
larry and jeff : yea.
susie : something seems off.
jeff : i dunno , alright we brought it back , i'll see you later.
larry : see ya part two ? you going tonight ?
susie : yea , maybe
jeff : hey , is your assistant going out with anybody ?
larry : you're not going out with my assistant. ok ?
jeff : what ? i just asked you a question.
larry : no , it's too...
jeff : how you know i want to go out with her ?
larry : because when you ask that question i know what you're talking about , i'm not an idiot.
cheryl : quiet , susie can hear you.
jeff : ( whispering ) hi , how are you ?
larry : oh , god , michaelson's.
cheryl : oh , my god.
jeff : the little girl.
larry : oh , she's got the doll.
jeff : beautiful.
larry : ohhhh. look at that.
jeff : looks good.
lane michaelson : oh , there're they david's.
cheryl : honestly , i can't even look at that guy right now. really , it makes me sick to my stomach.
larry : you know , i'm , i'll be right back , i'm going to the bathroom.
larry : cheryl.
cheryl : what ?
larry : come here for a second.
cheryl : what ?
larry : do me a favor see if anyone is in the ladies room.
cheryl : why ?
larry : it's an all factory nightmare in that men’s room.
cheryl : ahh. is anybody in here ? coast is clear.
larry : great , two minutes.
cheryl : ok , two minutes.
larry : hello.
tara : oh , hi , thank you for fixing judy's hair.
larry : oh , you're welcome.
tara : ( screaming ) mommy , mommy , that bald mans in the bathroom and there's something hard in his pants.
everyone in the theater : ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ,
ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh