click links for lyrics ! the playlist link can be found in the song bio ! videos can be found in the playlist itself.
songs with a ✅ contain verified annotations and/or lyrics !
click on the music video images to be taken to the video !
video : 2016 by the numbers
flume - never be like you feat. kai ✅
rihanna - work feat. drake ✅
gryffin - heading home feat. josef salvat
zayn - pillowtalk
video : focus on : cheat codes " sex " cheat codes & kris kross amsterdam - sex
sia - cheap thrills
charlie puth - we don't talk anymore feat. selena gomez
tory lanez - la confidential
michael brun & the audio institute - wherever i go feat. cheat codes , bélo & j. perry
video : the lumineers - " ophelia "
the lumineers - ophelia ✅
madeintyo - uber everywhere ✅
fifth harmony - work from home feat. ty dolla $ign
kendrick lamar - untitled 03 | 05.28.2013
drake - one dance feat. wizkid & kyla ✅
video : focus on : frenship " capsize " video : frenship - " capsize " feat. emily warren
frenship - capsize feat. emily warren ✅
rae sremmurd - look alive
enrique iglesias - duele el corazon feat. tinashe & javada
deorro - bailar feat. elvis crespo
calvin harris - this is what you came for feat. rihanna
video : d.r.a.m. - " broccoli "
d.r.a.m. - broccoli ✅
blink - 182 - bored to death
florida georgia line - h.o.l.y.
justin timberlake - can't stop the feeling ! ✅
coldplay - hymn for the weekend feat. beyonce ( seeb remix )
video : focus on : kent jones " don't mind " kent jones - don't mind ✅
kygo - carry me feat. julia michaels
onerepublic - wherever i go ✅
ariana grande - into you
young m.a. - ooouuu ✅
anne - marie - alarm
video : focus on : maggie rogers " alaska " video : maggie rogers - " alaska "
maggie rogers - alaska ✅
jon bellion - overwhelming
maren morris - 80s mercedes
kaleo - way down we go
twenty one pilots - heathens ✅
shawn mendes - ruin
miranda lambert - vice
video : francis and the lights - " friends " feat. bon iver & kanye west
francis and the lights - friends feat. bon iver & kanye west ✅
major lazer - cold water feat. justin bieber & mo ✅
hailee steinfeld & grey - starving feat. zedd
the chainsmokers - closer feat. halsey ✅
dj snake - let me love you feat. justin bieber
tove lo - cool girl ✅
zara larsson - ain't my fault
video : marshmello - " ritual " feat. wrabel
marshmello - ritual feat. wrabel
kings of leon - waste a moment
highly suspect - my name is human
verite - somebody else
the pretty reckless - take me down
the weeknd - starboy feat. daft punk ✅
video : the weeknd - " starboy " feat. daft punk
video : 2017 most anticipated