hey , yo guru , this just blaze , bleek and free right ?
so i could get a hook or verse or sumthin' ?
( get outta here ! )
stick to makin' beats , i stick to yo' moms , nigga
just blaze
roll up a l , pour glass in that arm - e
young e's had game since the days of atari
since the youth , i used to shoot her right back to the path
my day , goin' hard , mack the back of the cab
did it all , little robbery , back cart of the g - train
hood became a part of me , got a hell of a street game
niggas don't want no part of me , bitches they
wanna roll up , roll out , sit in the ferrari
breeze through marcy
they know i'm gangsta in every way , what
i keep it gangsta , tech on me everyday , but
p - game , how i lean to hit it , don't act right
i got to leave these bitches you know
i chase bread dog , i'm after the spread dog
the least you could do is give a nigga a lil' head , dog
parked by marcy , this two door ferrari
can't believe mami deny me poonani
but i guess she don't listen to rap
so i'mma slut her like a ghost
in the hole , missing the track
and i'm a p , i , m , p , fo' sho rap
r , o , c n , y , c , for short
f , r , two e's slide through deliver more
r , o , c , p , h , i , for short , por favor
i twist backwoods , swerve in the jeep
cheek deep , pick up the chicks
chicks lookin' for bleek
bleek sleep , makin' me sick won't answer the phone
motorola , two way , you may answer to freeway
i think it's him pagin' me now , i hear the back strap
where you at ? got a room full of freaks
and they tryin' to get right , i could smut 'em all night
and get them chickens outta sight
pass them hoes , then mack 'em
g to k , freeway known for movin' the yay
i could get 'em from point a to point g
here's the deal , i stuff 'em in the wheel
for the right amount of bills , i bring 'em where you stay
y'all hate freeway , scared when you see the freeway
but you wanna kill freeway , your girl ride the freeway
everyday , up and down , back and forth
in and out , know every route
where my bitches who stack niggas ?
fuck wit a nigga like memphis who gettin' that paper
but'll light you up with the jigga man
where my bitches at ? where my bitches at ?
where my real bitches at ? c'mon
( and all my niggas who took llamas , murda , murda
heard of a nigga named freeway , from philly to the 'linas
where my niggas at ? where my niggas at ?
where my real niggas at c'mon )
all day i be smokin' , we all my niggas who tokin'
we hit the block with the potent
give 'em a week and they blow it
you know and you know
there's some ofa's sittin' low and my dogs
know who all of us are , we sit low in them cars
ain't no bitches wanna roll , they say i'm doin' my thing
see it's blue in the chain , i was changin' my jeans but
li'l mami is you rollin'or what ? you fucka , you suck
for real i'm tryin'a see what's up with you
introduce you to the pimp and the playas
it's no playin' 'cuz i'm a gangsta
i don't fuck with them hatas and basic
hatin' is the part i ain't feelin'
ho's wanna fuck , 'cuz there's shit that i'm willin'
once they see it , i just fuck up they head
and when i bang out in the hood , i just fuck up my bread
instead of lead , i save it when i see you face to face
right now , i'm fucking wit hoes , they all gimme face shit
where my bitches who stack niggas ?
fuck wit a nigga like memphis who gettin' that paper
but'll light you up with the jigga man
where my bitches at ? where my bitches at ?
where my real bitches at ? c'mon
( and all my niggas who took llamas , murda , murda
heard of a nigga named freeway , from philly to the 'linas
where my niggas at ? where my niggas at ?
where my real niggas at c'mon )
just blaze
just blaze