every nigger is a star , ay , every nigger is a star
every nigger is a star , ay , every nigger is a star
every nigger is a star , ay
who will deny that you and i and every nigger is a star ?
hit me !
when the four corners of this cocoon collide
you’ll slip through the cracks hopin' that you’ll survive
gather your wit , take a deep look inside
are you really who they idolize ?
to pimp a butterfly
at first , i did love you
but now i just wanna fuck
late nights thinkin' of you
until i get my nut
tossed and turned , lesson learned
you was my first girlfriend
bridges burned , all across the board
destroyed , but what for ?
when i get signed , homie , i'ma act a fool
hit the dance floor , strobe lights in the room
snatch your little secretary bitch for the homies
blue - eyed devil with a fat - ass monkey
i'ma buy a brand new caddy on fours
trunk the hood up , two times , deuce - four
platinum on everythin' , platinum on weddin' ring
married to the game and a bad bitch chose
when i get signed , homie , i'ma buy a strap
straight from the cia , set it on my lap
take a few m - 16s to the hood
pass 'em all out on the block , what's good ?
i'ma put the compton swap meet by the white house
republican run up , get socked out
hit the prez with a cuban link on my neck
uneducated , but i got a million - dollar check like that
we should've never gave
we should've never gave niggas money
go back home , money , go back home
we should've never gave
we should've never gave niggas money
go back home , money , go back home
( everybody get out )
at first , i did love you ( love you )
but now i just wanna fuck
late nights thinkin' of you ( of you )
until i get my nut ( can i get my nut ? )
tossed and turned , lesson learned
you was my first girlfriend
bridges burned , all across the board ( across the board )
destroyed , but what for ?
yo , what's up ? it's dre
remember the first time you came out to the house ?
you said you wanted a spot like mine
but remember , anybody can get it
the hard part is keepin' it , motherfucker
what you want ? you a house or a car ?
forty acres and a mule , a piano , a guitar ?
anythin' , see , my name is uncle sam , i'm your dog
motherfucker , you can live at the mall
i know your kind ( that's why i'm kind )
don't have receipts ( oh , man , that's fine )
pay me later , wear those gators
cliché , then say , " fuck your haters "
i can see the borrow in you , i can see the dollar in you
little white lies , but it's no white - collar in you
but it's whatever though because i'm still followin' you
because you make me live forever , baby
count it all together , baby
then hit the register and make me feel better , baby
your horoscope is a gemini , two sides
so you better cop everything two times
two coupes , two chains , two c - notes
too much ain't enough , both we know
christmas , tell 'em what's on your wish list
get it all , you deserve it , kendrick
and when you hit the white house , do you
but remember , you ain't pass economics in school
and everything you buy , taxes will deny
i'll wesley snipe your ass before thirty - five
yeah , lookin' down , it's quite a drop ( it's quite a drop , drop )
lookin' good when you're on top ( when you're on top , you got it )
you got a medal for us
leavin' miracles metaphysically in a state of euphoria
look both ways before you cross my mind
we should've never gave
we should've never gave niggas money
go back home , money , go back home
we should've never gave
we should've never gave niggas money
go back home , money , go back home
tax man comin' , tax man comin'
tax man comin' , tax man comin'
tax man comin' , tax man comin'
tax man comin' , tax man comin'