lord god
i come to you a sinner
and i humbly repent for my sins
i believe that jesus is lord
i believe that you raised him from the dead
i will ask that jesus will come to my life
and be my lord and savior
i receive jesus to take control of my life
and that i may live for him from this day forth
thank you lord jesus for saving me with your precious blood
in jesus' name , amen
i met her at this house party on el segundo and central
she had the credentials of strippers in atlanta
ass came with a hump from the jump she was a camel
i want to ride like arabians , push an '04 mercedes - benz
" hello my name is kendrick , " she said " no , you're handsome "
whispered in my ear , disappeared then found her dancing
ciara had played in the background
the parade music we made had us all wearing shades now , cool
" where you stay ? " she said " down the street from dominguez high "
okay , i know that's borderline compton or paramount
" well is it compton ? "
" no , " she replied and quickly start batting her eyes and
strictly had wanted her thighs around me
seventeen , with nothing but pussy stuck on my mental
my motive was rather sinful
" what you trying to get into ? "
she didn't tell , just gave me her nextel
dropped the number , we chirped the whole summer and well
the summer had passed , and now i'm liking her
conversation we having probably enticing her
who could imagine , maybe my actions would end up wifing her
love or lust , regardless , we'll fuck cause the trife in us
it's deep rooted , the music of being young and dumb
is never muted ; in fact , it's much louder where i'm from
we know a lot 'bout each other , her mother was a crack addict
she live with her granny and her younger two brothers
her favorite cousin demetrius's irrepetible
family history of gang banging - did make me skeptical
but not enough to stop me from getting a nut
i wanna come over , what's up ? that's what i told her soon as this episode
of martin go off , i'm trying to get off
i was in heat like a cactus , my tactics of being thirsty
probably could hurt me , but fuck it i got some heart
grab my momma's keys , hopped in the car , then oh boy
so now i'm down rosecrans in a caravan
passing alameda , my gas meter in need of a pump
i got enough to get me through the traffic jam
at least i hope cause my pockets broke as a promise man
i'm thinking bout that sex , thinking bout her thighs
or maybe kissing on her neck , or maybe what positions next
sent a picture of her titties blowing up my texts
i looked at 'em and almost ran my front bumper into corvette
enthused by the touch of a woman , she's a masseuse
and i'm a professional porn star when off the goose
i had a fifth in the trunk like curtis jackson for ransom
i'm hoping to get her loose like an uncle luke anthem
i'm two blocks away , 250 feet
and six steps from where she stay , she waving me 'cross the street
i pulled up a smile on my face , and then i see
two niggas , two black hoodies , i froze as my phone rang
please leave your message for 323 -
record your message after the tone
kendrick. where you at ? damn ! i'm sittin' here waitin' on my van
you told me you was gon' be back in fiffteen minutes !
i gotta go to the county buildin , man
these kids ready to eat ! i’m ready to eat , shit
i gotta get them food stamps , come on now
you on you way or what ?
i hope you ain’t out there messin' with them damn hood - rats out there , shit
especially that crazy - ass girl sherane
plus you got school tomorrow
you keep fuckin' around in them streets , you ain’t gon' pass to the next grade , 11th grade
( is that kendrick on the phone ? )
yo daddy hollerin' 'bout some damn dominoes
he want to holler at you too , gon' 'head kenny , gon' , shit !
( hello ? yeah , where my motherfuckin' dominoes at ? )
kenny !
( what ? )
you on his voicemail ! damn fool
( oh )
shit
( k , where my motherfuckin' dominoes at ?
this the second time i ask you to bring my fuckin' dominoes ! )
kenny give me the damn phone , shit. don’t hang up ! damn !
( keep losing my damn dominoes we gone have to go in the backyard , and squab homie )
just let me - kendrick ! when you get this message , man
call me back. i need to know when you gon' bring back my damn car
this man fussin' 'bout some damn dominoes
it ain’t all that serious. fuck , damn dominoes
shit i'mma miss my damn appointment ! fuck !
fuck them damn dominoes , nobody wanna hear that
nobody want to hear yo' ass !
mattafact , cut my motherfuckin' oldies back on
you killin' my motherfuckin' vibe