join us in welcoming oklahoma city thunder small forward to the roc nation sports/caa family ! read up on him below :
born on september 29 , 1988 , just outside the nation's capital , in suitland , maryland , kevin wayne durant is a high - profile professional basketball player. after playing college basketball for only one season at the university of texas , austin , he was chosen second overall in the first round of the 2007 nba draft by the seattle supersonics.
durant's success started with the pg jaguars , an amateur athletic union youth basketball team in prince george's county , maryland. the team won two national championships during durant's tenure. to this day , durant wears a no. 35 jersey in honor of charles craig , his aau coach and childhood mentor , who died at the age of 35. kevin was mentored and trained by a man name taurs ( stink ) brown. taurs trained kevin on basketball skills , academic skills , and life skills. kevin spent a lot of time with him learning about life and basketball. he is a large part of the reason why kevin is who he is today.
during high school , he played for the national christian academy and montrose christian school , both in maryland , and for basketball powerhouse oak hill academy , located in virginia. after his senior year , he was named to parade magazine's " first team " list , and to usa today's " first team all - american " list , capturing attention from major college basketball recruiters nationwide.
college career
durant received offers from top division i colleges , and although prompted by his friend , point guard tywon lawson , to join him and play with the university of north carolina tar heels , durant signed with the university of texas longhorns in austin. russell springman , a longhorn assistant and maryland native , had been in touch with durant since his freshman year of high school.
as a longhorn , durant started in every game during his freshman year of college , averaging 25.8 points per game ( first in the big 12 , fourth in the nation ) and 11 rebounds per game in 35 games. he scored 20 - plus points 30 times , and put up 30 - plus points 11 times. he was named the big 12 tournament's most valuable player after hitting a tournament record of 92 points and leading the longhorns to the second round of the national collegiate athletic association men's basketball championship , where they lost to the university of southern california.
as a freshman , durant received the oscar robertson and the adolph f. rupp awards , and was the first freshman to win both honors.
nba career
after just one year of college basketball , durant declared himself eligible for the 2007 nba draft. in june of that year , he was chosen second overall in the first round by the seattle supersonics. around that same time , durant signed a $60 million , seven - year endorsement deal with nike , a major deal at the time , exceeded only by lebron james's nike contract.
in his rookie season , durant was selected as a member of the nba's all - rookie first team and was named the nba's " rookie of the year. " after the 2007 - 08 season , the seattle supersonics relocated the organization from seattle , washington to oklahoma city , oklahoma , becoming the oklahoma city thunder. durant continues to thrive with the franchise. in 2013 , durant ended the season with a 51 percent shooting rate , a 41.6 percent three point shooting rate , and a 90.5 free throw shooting rate , durant became the youngest player in nba history to join the 50–40–90 club. his 2013 campaign was called " one of the greatest shooting seasons in league history. "
durant has been named an nba all - star three times ( 2010 - 12 ) and to the all - nba first team three times ( 2010 - 12 ) . he also led the league three times as nba scoring champion ( 2010 - 12 ) , becoming only the eighth player in nba history to do so.
durant has also played internationally , and was named 2010 fiba world championship mvp by the international basketball federation. additionally , he was chosen to play with the 2012 u.s. olympic basketball team. at the 2012 olympic games in london , the u.s. basketball team took home the gold medal.