yea
chip , check it out
25 wives
wish i could have...
if i could have 25 wives..
just me with all y'all , that'd be so wonderful
make daddy proud : i love every one of you
my angels - i feel like flava flav but sexier
the sex is gonna be messier
but ain't gonna be no stress in here
we living good all of us , we winning , that's obvious
we got whips , cars r us , we smoke good : it's foggy
plus the status : they all mad at us
teamwork : that's our recipe for living lavish
yeah , we get this cabbage
i'm the head coach of the team
if everybody play their position , we can win this thing
called life , happiness , liberty , freedom
if i got all y'all , there won't be no sense in cheating
y'all the truth , got a connection with you all
ambisexuals. if this ain't heaven what's it called ?
must be life. no greater feeling in the world
if i had 25 wives , i would love all my girls..
i wish i could have 25 wives
we'd all get it poppin , we'd all get high : that's fly
if i could have 25 wives
i'd love them all like they love me
we hustle to survive
got women in every city. winning in every city
her body's been paranormal since buying that pair of titties , look
silicone bitches got the confidence
but natural bitches get all my compliments
i ain't trying to conflict : nickels to dimes and shit
make something out of nothing. nigga , i macgyver that bitch
niggas wild as shit. no rubber , just climb in that bitch
take your hat off and get to cuttin : kung lao on that bitch
mortal kombat , my shit is beyond rap
i keep it 100 nigga : warren moon , warren sapp
hit , i never call her back. bet she keep on coming back
you keeping her dry , shit , i named that bitch " tsunami cat "
i'm too polished , i ain't looking for acknowledgement
put my squad on my back like i'm wearing me a starter jacket
yall lame niggas. no bitches when yall are out
i get that ivy league brain , catch me with a dartmouth
it's double m - g yo
it's nothing but a motherfucking undefended free throw
i'm getting each ho
eyes lower than ichiro