1
mary
mary showed up empty - handed.
“i don’t have anything with me , ” she said , and she opened her arms to indicate their emptiness.
the woman standing before her was called big alice , but there was nothing big about her. she stood five feet tall , with a tiny waist , short silver hair , and gray eyes the color of a sky right before a storm. big alice had her slight body wedged between the worn wooden door to the shop and mary herself.
“this isn’t really my kind of thing , ” mary said apologetically.
the woman nodded. “i know , ” she said , stepping back so that the door swung open wide. “i can’t tell you how many people have stood right where you’re standing and said that exact thing.” her voice was soft , british.
“well , ” mary said , because she didn’t know what else to say.
she never did know what to say these days , or what to do. this was in september , five months after her daughter stella had died. that stunned disbelief had ebbed slightly , but the horrible noises in her head had grown. they were hospital noises , doctors’ voices , and stella’s own five - year - old voice saying mama. sometimes mary imagined she really heard her daughter calling out to her and her heart would squeeze tight on itself.
“come on in , ” big alice said.
mary followed her into the shop. alice wore a gray tweed skirt , a white oxford shirt , a gold cardigan , and pearls. although the top half of her looked like a schoolmarm , she had crazy - colored striped socks on her feet and pink chenille bedroom slippers with red rhinestone cherries across the tops.
“i’ve got the gout , ” big alice explained , lifting one slippered foot. then she added , “i guess you know i’m alice.”
“yes , ” mary said.
like everything else , mary could easily have forgotten the woman’s name. she’d written it on one of the hundreds of post - its scattered around the house like confetti after a party. but , like all of the phone numbers and dates and directions , the paper with alice written on it was gone. outside the store , however , a wooden sign read big alice’s sit and knit , and when mary saw it she had remembered : alice.
mary stopped and got her bearings. these days this was always necessary , even in familiar places. in her own kitchen she would stop what she was doing and look around , take stock. oh , she would say to herself , noting that the television was off instead of tuned to sagwa , the chinese cat ; the bowl stella had made at claytime with its carefully painted and placed polka dots was empty of the sliced cucumbers or mound of blueberries it used to hold ; the cutout hearts with crayoned i love you’s and the construction - paper kite with its pink ribbon tail drooped. oh , mary would say , realizing all over again that this was how her kitchen—her life—looked now. empty and sad.
the shop was small , with creaky wooden floors and baskets and shelves brimming over with yarn. it smelled like sweaters and cedar and alice’s own citrus scent. there were three rooms : this small one , the room beyond with the cash register and a well - worn couch slipcovered in a pink and red floral pattern , and another larger room with more yarn and a few chairs.
the yarn was beautiful. mary saw this immediately and touched some as she followed alice into the next room , letting her fingertips linger a bit over the skeins.
“so , ” alice was saying , “we’ll start you on a scarf.” she held up a finished scarf. cobalt blue with pale blue tassels. “you like this one ? ”
“i guess so , ” mary said.
“you don’t like it ? you’re frowning.”
“i do. it’s fine. it’s just , i can’t make it. i’m not good with my hands. i flunked home ec. really , i did.”
alice turned toward the wall and pulled down some wooden knitting needles.
“a ten - year - old can make that scarf , ” she said , a bit impatiently. she handed the needles to mary.
they felt large and smooth and awkward in her hands. mary watched as alice went over to a shelf and grabbed several balls of yarn. the same cobalt blue , and aquamarine , and mauve.
“which color do you like ? ” alice said. she held them out to mary like an offering.
“the blue , i guess , ” mary said , and the particular blue of stella’s eyes presented itself in her mind. when she tried to blink it away , she felt tears slide out. she turned her head and wiped her eyes.
“blue it is , ” alice said , more gently. she pointed to a chair tucked into a corner beneath balls of fat yarn. “sit down and i’ll teach you how to knit.”
mary laughed. “such optimism , ” she said.
“a woman came in here two weeks ago , ” alice said , dropping into an overstuffed chair and sticking her feet up on a small footstool with a needlepoint cover. “she’d never knit a thing , and she’s made three of these scarves. that’s how easy it is.”
mary had driven forty miles to this store , even though there was a knitting shop less than a mile from her house. as she navigated the unfamiliar back roads , it had seemed foolish , coming so far , to knit of all things. but sitting here with this stranger who knew nothing about her , or about what had happened , with these unfamiliar needles in her sweaty hands , mary knew somehow that it was the right thing to do.
“it’s just a series of slipknots , ” alice said. she held up a long tail of the yarn and demonstrated.
“i was kicked out of the girl scouts , ” mary said. “slipknots are a mystery to me.”
“first home economics. then the girl scouts , ” alice said , tsking. but her gray eyes gleamed mischievously.
“actually , it was girl scouts , then home ec , ” mary said.
alice chuckled. “if it makes you feel any better , i hated knitting. didn’t want to learn. now here i am. i own a knitting store. i teach people to knit.”
mary smiled politely. other people’s stories held little interest for her. she used to like to listen to tales of broken hearts and triumphs and the odd twists of life. but her own story had taken over the part of her that was once open to such things. and if she listened out of politeness or necessity—like now—the situation begged for her to talk , to share. she wanted no part in that. there were times when she wondered if she’d ever tell her story to anyone.
“so , ” mary said , “slipknots.”
“since you’re a girl scouts–home economics flunkee , ” alice said , “i’ll cast on for you. besides , if i stand here and teach you , i’ll be wasting both our time because you’re going to forget.”
mary didn’t bother to ask what “cast on” meant. like a magician practicing sleight of hand , alice made a series of loops and twists , then held out one needle , the blue yarn snaking up it ominously.
“i cast on twenty - two stitches for you , and you’re ready to go.”
“uh - huh , ” mary said.
alice motioned for mary to come sit beside her.
“in here , ” alice said , demonstrating. “then wrap the yarn like this. and pull this needle through.”
mary smiled as first one stitch , then another , appeared on the empty needle.
“okay , ” alice said. “go ahead.”
“me ? ” mary said.
“i already know how to do it , ” alice said , “don’t i ? ”
mary took a breath and began.