oh y'all just wanna do with out the beat
uh well fuck it we gon' do it like this
on radio station motherfuckin' 187.4 bitch
w ballz part two huh ?
peep game broadcasting
provided by mother fucking emena huh ?
( enema ! )
emena... not enema... enema !
i'm sayin' it baby , i just said it low
( in yo' ass )
in your motherfuckin' asshole
ok like this , we gon' clean it up like this , huh punk bitch
man what a bitch , gangsta shit
fours scrape up the cement then bend
i never love me a ho
just to remind y'all bitches in case you didn't know
i breaks fool all niggas , way cool all niggas
fuck all y'all niggas , sawed off y'all niggas
and i'm quick to pull out
gangsta shit , tell a bitch to stick a dick in her mouth
as i skip to my loo , c - walkin' , g talkin'
i'm a gangsta , cold hearted , sick , dumb and retarted
came up this far without a bullet proof vest ( yeah )
ran with the best , sport khaki's again
always stay fresh won't settle for less
looped out , satined out -
man these niggas on deck
now it's the pimp of the crew , soopafly comin' through
i got a dick and a couple balls just to name a few
the d.p. locced out , niggas get choked out
smoked out niggas that'll fuck you up no doubt
gangsta gangsta , tell me how you do it
it seems so simple like there was nothin' to it
rippin' , sippin' , dippin' on the fluid
west coast nigga , yeah we be the truest
represent that long beach , represent that l.b.c
represent that long beach , represent that s.t.c
represent that long beach , represent that d.p.g
represent that long beach , represent that p.a.c
i have so much beef i shoulda fucked up my colon
but i sent 'em off deprived , with both they fuckin' eyes swollen
everything stolen and it's still rich rollin'
niggas can't see me cause i kill shit blowin'
i let loose like ain't no tomorrow with bomb beats
a - k - 47 street , quick to get ya
my lyrics like missiles to hit hitler
motherfucker stay up out my kool - aid pitcher
you don't wanna see my style like click - click pow
make you bow to my wicked style , make you my child
the enemy wanna diss , nigga but how could he ?
we hookers and hoodies , with a bag full of goodies , what ! ?
now take that for what it's worth
i'll terrorize your territory and take over your turf
all these niggas is rob , but they was soft as a nerf
nasty as after birth , they say " ooh " after the verse
i'm commercial , universal with no rehearsal
and when i'm in the hood i'm just so controversial
niggas know me homie - the o.g
west coast don , i'll smash on anyone
on my daughter and my two sons , the set and my two guns
i move the dubs and let d move the 2 - 1's
not to mention all my no limit niggas now
we do it g style like big c - style
represent that long beach , represent that l.b.c
represent that long beach , represent that s.t.c
represent that l.b. , represent that d.p.g
represent that l.b. , represent that p.a.c
what , what , what ?
my freestyle worth about a ticket now
so to kick a style , you gotta kick me down
every nigga from the pound gettin' paid now
hey now , big bow wow honey child
i ran a hundred miles through about a hundred styles
and now i'm through with it , with nothin' else to do with it
roll it , blaze it , pass it , now you hit it
we's a d.p.g. committee
snoop fuck that bitch
dat nigga daz fuck that bitch , that trick , that goofy ass bitch
soopafly , super high , ruff cap slip , fuckin' gangsta shit
20 insane , 60 crip
19th street crip - where the gangstas hang
it's a gang thang , we all gang bang
hold up ( wait a minute ! )
all my niggas get ( gangsta with it ! )
tick - tock ( crip walk ! )
and prepare to get ill when the gangstas talk
saggin' and flaggin' with the '7 - trey draggin'
smokin' like a dragon with the .4 - 4 cannon
be the last man standin' whoopin' niggas at random
gray and blue bandanna's , hoo - ridin' is standard
so what y'all wanna say ? ( huh , huh ? )
what y'all wanna do ? ( huh , huh ? )
you niggas trippin' , while i'm steady dippin'
throw your clip in , since y'all all flippin'
rollin' capers , while i'm gettin' papers
tried to shake us , you know they caught the vapors
everyone around is soon to see
ain't nobody comin' close to me
keep hangin' 'round and you'll believe
represent that long beach , represent that l.b.c
represent that long beach , represent that s.t.c
represent that long beach , represent that d.p.g
represent that long beach , represent that p.a.c
represent that long beach , represent that s.t.g
represent that long beach , represent that d.p.g
represent that long beach , represent that p.a.c
represent that long beach , represent that long beach
represent that...
let's kick it off like this bitch... bitch please...you ain't knowin'
the broadcast is directed by motherfuckin' snoop doggy dogg in this biznotch
if you're not knowin' , ya know !
we gon' kick it in your colon hole like this though
1 - 8 - 7.4 in your asshole like this
if you're not knowin' now your blowin'...
shabadoo huh ?
we gon' kick it like this to the eastside l.b.c
l.b.c. huh ?
s.d.c. ?
fuck i heard it was uh , d.p.g