( girl )
yeah right , i ain't no motherfucking ho
my home girl a ho
shit nigga , i got my own shit
and i'm tryin' to get up on your mind nigga but shit
( kurupt )
just another day sunny c - a - l , try to pass and tell
i knew it was your bitch by the way her pussy smell
but what's this ?
this nigga actin just like the bitch
cause he like the bitch
he just like the bitch
your girl ain't nothing but a bitch leavin messages on all on nigga's service
you actin just like the ho
actin' like he don't know
the all - mighty , ball - blowing , ball blowing - jaws like jaws a lil lower
you hit the spot ?
perfect bitch
ever seen your bitch when she slurp on dicks ?
with that birth mark right on her upper thigh
with a mouth like that i don't sympathize
she do things with her mouth you gotta see wit your own two eyes bitch nigga
actin surprised
see daz beat the cock
but you love the bitch
she be eatin dicks and you kissin the bitch
you know. . .that i know. . .that your gyrlfriend , is a ho
i know. . .that you know. . .that your gyrlfriend , is my ho
( kurupt )
i want it blow
get it on
drop 6 - 6 on 5 hoes nigga its on
cadillac domes
magnum and chromes
put it on , strap it on
dont take it off more than 3 days it'll ( ? ? )
get the whole tip of your dick burned off
fuck around with that bitch of yours
she's no different from the rest of the whores
might be nasty , unclassy , sassy , untrustworthy plastic bitch
and you got the nerve to fall in love with the bitch
and actin' like your ballin captain fall in love with a bitch
now you know about the girl that you chose to love
chillin with the homies , buyin' sacks from k - dubb
smokin' up , chokin' up , payin for the smokin up
in the cut , take this game and start soakin up
locin' up with jesus what i see
while daz takin' your bitch upstairs i be
waitin' to fuck , my goddam self
with 18 rubbers , cause your bitch is hazardous to health
and you know , like i know , that your trick ass , skanky ass bitch is a ho
chorus
( daz )
any nigga can get the pussy , ( yeah right )
all it takes is some time , ( yeah that's right ! )
you can hit it like you want it , ( uhhhh )
hit up or from behind
( girl )
you ain't sticking that big dick up in my ass uh - uh , that shit looks ferocious
oh i'm straight nigga. please be - weave - it
( kurupt )
shut the fuck up bitch
eat a dick bitch
eat a bowl of shit bitch
munch on a mouthful of balls , in halls and malls
just shut the fuck up bitch and work your jaws
take a pill bitch , chill bitch
jerk your jaws
eat the pussy in then work the walls
i seen that nigga last week it's like this
what a ho ass nigga , he still in love wit the bitch
( girl )
i'm taking yo' punk asses right to the bank , ching ching
chorus
( girl )
yeah that's all right though i'm a ho , yeah you know , yeah i'm a ho , yeah ya'll can keep calling me a ho but how you going to get this pussy though
beitch ! ! ! ! ( fuck you )