sup fred ?
gangsta shit
west coast...
niggas with hepatitis
unauthorized hard - to - move arthritis
infected selected neglected ejected
and next time ya hit the west
you could best believe , believe the best , mothafuck the rest
what you supposed to be snatchin' ?
you comin' to a world of punctured hearts and jackin'
lethal illegal overseein' the overview like seagulls
balls in ya jaws on the hunt like bald eagles
the end of the sequel
i'm the milli - mac and the strong - end and nigga to blame
and i'mma start callin' y'all bitch niggas by name :
mothafuck d , mothafuck m , only x i know is xzibit or rbx extraordinary
trying to snatch my bitch
you can have the bitch
two bitches gettin' rich
just to come to the west coast and get stripped down
beat to death and stripped , all over a bitch
now it's 50 mc's that ain't worth shit
get ya ass kicked 50 times , beat to 10 cent
i love new york , but the niggas that represent ya'll ain't shit new york
they actin' like a bitch new york
buckshot , noreaga , jigga - cool
canibus , wu - tang , my niggas - cool
def squad and def jam , but fuck ja rule
irv gotti i can't wait for raekwon to break fool
tryna sign daz , nigga daz 'll sign you
and when you hit the west , this is what we gon' do :
get y'all niggas , slap y'all niggas like bitches
dippin' through the 'hood on switches
i just bought me a cadillac last week
wit' a new bitch since my old bitch tweaked
naw homeboy , the game just ain't the same
if you wanna know , kurupt said it , and i'm callin' out names
*scratching* " never did like him "
" you know what ? " *scratching* " fuck , fuck , fuck all ya'll "
" it's for my niggas and my bitches
my bitches and all my niggas , my niggas and
my bitches , my bitches and all my niggaaaass ! "
callin' out names !
( now if it wasn't for the west
these rap niggas wouldn't need a vest around they chest )
( now if it wasn't for the west
these rap niggas wouldn't need a vest around they chest )
i don't give a fuck
catch me in da 'hood all blue chucks , gangbanged the fuck out cuz
only thing i like that ryde ruff is eve
and all the rest of y'all niggas who ryde ruff get these
i'mma tell you one mo' time and i won't say it again
kurupt said it mothafucka from beginnin' to end
you salamander - ass , caterpillar - ass mothafucka
fake - ass busta - ass fake killa mothafucka
if it wasn't for the west
these rap niggas wouldn't need a vest for they chest
quoted from my fuckin' homie x
the lox y'all my mothafuckas , can't forget ya'll
and that's spoken on by the mothafuckin dogg
all the rest of ya'll , tell ya like this
eat a fat dick , bitch
i'm callin out names !
fuck ruff ryder
fuck the firm
fuck belly
kurupt said it , fucker
nigga , now if i didn't say yo name , then this ain't for you
but if you try to speak then i'mma peel the paint for you
i cause brain tumors thinkin' of a thought to think
lettin' off caliber's 'til the chamber need to be changed
empty out , simply don't tempt me
i empty out until everything in this mothafucka's gone
i empty house off of empty rounds
now what the fuck you gotta say ?
what the fuck you wanna see ? the homie's or my k
i never worry 'bout none of y'all so why now ?
i run it through and this is how you do it dogg pound ( roof ! )
the gang , we master blast and maintain
weed , money , cocaine got us all insane
bitch niggas remember even though the times may change
i won't , kurupt said it , nigga , and i'm callin' out names
*scratching* " never did like him "
" you know what ? " *scratching* all ya'll ! " fuck , fuck , fuck all ya'll "
" it's for my niggas and my bitches
my bitches and all my niggas , my niggas and
my bitches , my bitches and all my niggaaaass ! "
west coast ! it's about time !
( now if it wasn't for the west
these rap niggas wouldn't need a vest around they chest )
let's start !
coasta' nigga !
( now if it wasn't for the west
these rap niggas wouldn't need a vest around they chest )
holla at'cha boy... on the west coast... get at me homie !
( now if it wasn't for the west
these rap niggas wouldn't need a vest around they chest )