burn so crooked ( crooked )
the poet likes to spit ( spit )
kareem , that's my dog
life , behind the walls
nigga life , behind the walls
yeah , welcome to oz niggas , surprise niggas..
keep ya head right , keep ya game tight
ya might not make it through the night ( hold up )
this ain't nothin but war in here
we overpacked in here , you put more in here ?
'bout to rain like snow and let it all go
father ray , to cut ( mmm )
i'm gon' need all the friends i could get
cause i'm through with this shit
hit up tim , uhm , yeah
tell me something good mayn
cause i'm so discombobulated being out the hood
i don't know if it's a bad or a good thang
missin cadillacs switches in the wood grain
don't touch on my matress , it ain't cool
simon on the yard straight trippin on fools
co so crooked ( crooked )
come equipped when the shank sticks
yeah , that's my dogg
life , behind the walls
life , behind the walls
suckers - welcome to oz niggas ; surprise niggas
west coast representin for all my doggs
one love to my doggs behind the walls
nate dogg and i'm tight for all of y'all
stand strong , stand tall , and never fall
west coast representin for all my doggs
one love to my doggs behind the walls
nate dogg and i'm tight for all of y'all
stand strong , stand tall , and never fall
quick to get ticked off
every other day , take this wit'cha ( wit'cha )
the politics stretched out , we all stressed out
do your thang and i'mma do my thang
we up in the zoo , headed - quarter ? to the west wang
oh you servin up somethin ? well you gotta kick in
it's the politics to y'all politicians
kicked in - shank stick in
only god dump ; inmates gets stuck
i'm smokin on a hump , hollin at her
a fool walked up , talkin 'bout the phone
phone check huh ? i miss my pump
it ain't no thang even though he's holdin boulders
i'mma still squabble this fool from the shoulders
if i win or lose the respect that counts
be the first take off ? pc out
the guard so crooked ( crooked )
come equipped when the shank sticks
well i've arrived at my new home - cell three
i looked around and what did i see ?
one of them clowns one of my enemies
gotta stay down so i make me some weed
it's goin down in the mornin on me
soon as they say " hey line up , " let's leave
right now the nigga just as safe as can be
but when we hit the kitchen maaan sleep
nate dogg and i'm tight for all of y'all
when you wanna make a hit , give me a call
west coast representin for all my doggs
one love to my doggs behind the walls
nate dogg and i'm tight for all of y'all
stand strong , stand tall , and never fall
west coast representin for all my doggs
one love to my doggs behind the walls
huhh , in here , we work out , re - utilize time
findin somethin in ourselves to find
i make you go see , sister peter marie
i'm the jaw tapper , i'mma be a g in here like antonio nappa
doctor gloria fix ya up completely
i just might stick myself ( aahh ! ) so she can feel on me
watch out boy ! it's comin fast ( fast )
white lightnin's 'bout to strike
it don't matter who up in here boy !
there's sixteen inmates just like him
violent as a viking ; systematic , terrible , tragic
tragic , drastic , spasmatic , casualties growin like cancer
i'm all outta breath like a nigga asthmatic
with asthma , here's the perfect answer
and also here's ya last chance to just
try to make it over the wall ( the wall )
the inmates are so crooked ( crooked )
come equipped when the shank sticks
yeah ! west coast !
stand strong ! kurupt !
roll ! yeah !
behind the walls !
yeah , so crooked , c'mon , come equiped when the shank sticks
yeah , that's my dogg , ( dogg pound )
life behind the walls ( it's like that )
spending life behind the walls
welcome to oz
life behind the walls {*repeat until fade*}