yeah nigga... westcoast
westcoastin' , floatin' , oh so ferocious
nigga ! ... g'z... young gotti
i'm like... fuck a bitch and fuck you too
it's so many different things that i'm gon' do
switches all fucked up
livin' in the '80's jackin' niggas for nissan trucks
a quarter piece to flip
it's me and daz and two bitches
i never gave a fuck , nigga daz and kurupt
they say this ain't the way to get rich !
i might as well pimp me a bitch !
i don't get it , i take it
put a glitch in the matrix
flip some bricks to strip ya bitch naked
cause i just don't care , live from " g " square
where the best indica get put in the air
nigga... fuck a bitch and fuck you too
what a punk mothafucka like you gon' do ?
... i holla'd at dr. dre , hit up bigg snoop
wit the candy cut - cut perfectly on fued
it's on one , nah he said it's on two
on fifteen shells , ducked and detailed , de - railed
all on you to to want to
do what the fuck you want to do too
get what ya got to get to get through
light what ya wanna light to light fire
big arsonist blew to white fire
blast through ya home or blast to hit doors
crap like the crap table , kane and abel
i'm cyanide sinatra , galactic galaga
metaphysical sixteen caliber metallica
'sane asylum shanker , big and little banker
punk mothafucka , mothafuck , mothafucka , yeah nigga
we can go heads nigga
your bitch give me head nigga , heard what i said nigga ?
flip me some bread nigga , get ya chest bust like lead niggas
sleep to - bed nigga , daz and fred nigga
kurupt young gotti , baby face , capone
we on niastra , nigga on the microphone
never never have i ever gave a fuck
dat nigga daz dillinger , fred , kurupt
and we do what the fuck we want to do too
get what we got to get to get through
and we blast what we got blast to get ours
life of a gangsta in a world of stars
light what ya wanna light to light fire
big arsonist blew to white fire
do what the fuck you want to do too
get what ya got to get to get through , through , through
just do it... don't stop
all my niggas on the north side , getcha money right away
all my niggas on the south side , let 'em know that you don't play
and say them niggas on the east side , ain't some niggas you contest
unless you stuck up in a time - warp , you all ready know about the west
they say them niggas on the north side , keep tabs on they skrill
all my niggas on the south side , try to make another mil'
all my niggas on the east side , make million dollar deals
all my niggas on the westside , been doing this for years
throw ya mothafuckin' hands up somebody
throw ya mothafuckin' hood up somebody
what them niggas do , they ride
what them niggas do , they ride , ride
throw ya mothafuckin' hands up somebody
throw ya mothafuckin' hood up somebody
what them niggas do , they ride
what them niggas do , they ride , ride
mac , young gotti , fuck the world nigga
daz dillinger , fredwreck , dogg pound , l.a. life
fuck a long beach world , murder your enemies cuz !
they tryna murder you , you know who i'm talkin' to nigga !
2000 , screech 'em on 'em , riders , the real riders
dogg pound gangsta riders , hoodsies