yo , slaughterhouse is the movement
c.o.b/s.m.h is the new venture
eminem is a genius , yo , paul is a boss
shoutout yelawolf , salute to d12 , rest in peace proof
lets get it !
shady's number one
shady's number one
( go ! go ! )
shady's number one
shady's number one
( go ! go ! )
got that number one hip - hop album out there , so i bought that whip
nigga said crooked was garbage , meanwhile his bitch won't get off my dick
niggas wanna front on a guy , if i was you homie , i would get off that quick
got the charts going up on a tuesday , fuck that , i'mma top that shit ( yeah ! )
shady's number one
shady's number one
( nigga said crooked was garbage , meanwhile his bitch won't get off my dick )
shady's number one
shady's number one
got the charts going up on a tuesday , fuck that , i'mma top that shit
i was talking to paul in new york the other day , he said " crooked this a great year "
the 'shady xv' went number one on itunes , i guess the statement was made clear
i came home , went straight to the booth , i'm doing everything you snakes fear
killin' rappers right and left , bringing more death than macbeth
a modern day shakespeare ( yeah ! )
spittin' bars in a cypher while i'm filming it in the heart of the city , that was some g shit
yeah , mentioning ferguson , and darren wilson in the middle of that rap , thats some me shit
yeah , i'm from the city by the sea , so you know the flow wavy and might get you sea sick
you're fallin' off , i'm watching your career slide down that mountain like i'm sittin' on a ski lift
i'm just spittin' on a remix , cause the boy loco with the rhyme flow
somethin' everybody know like geico
psychopath killer going michael ,
sex , money , hip - hop is all i know
i'm in my crib and i'm chillin' in my house slippers
thinkin' about how the industry treated me
some love lost , but i'm in my prhyme though
shady's number one
we got the charts going loco ( we number one nigga ! )
but y'all already know though ( y'all already know )
i'm hammer dancin' with my four - four
( kxng crooked , do you have any words for the police ? )
fuck the po - po !
cause the pig darren wilson wanna see a nigga like kxng crooked on ice
cyber monday man , the consequences of killing at a very low price
you're mad ray got reinstated , you're focused on the wrong rice
cops pull up , kill a kid with a pellet gun , they ain't even think twice
tamir , so i roll up on the cops playing psychopath killer , hockey mask in the duffel bag
throwing bullets like a pittsburgh stealer , as a matter - a - fact i'm naming my rifle mac miller
cause it's aiming for your faces , you gonna think you're watching movies when they sound off ( ow ! )
then i'mma let snoop tell you what the case is ( murder was the case that they gave me )
this time we kill 'em with the charts , crooked is intelligent , i kill 'em with the smarts
it's a brand new era , i'm talking about for me
god bless the kxng , you're gonna feel it when it starts , i promise
deadly the flows is , and what a lot of people knows is , i been a king before the name change man
i put that on moses
december 16th , sex , money & hip - hop mixtape
ice man on the motherfuckin' boards , kxng crooked in the booth
slaughterhouse behind me
cob
shady's number one
shady's number one
yeah !
ya know man
couple people actin' like they don't know ( haha )
i like odd future ( haha )
i like y'all odd future niggas man
that nigga tyler said " shady xv was ass " , young nigga though ( haha )
and i like that nigga , so you know , it's all good
nothin' i do is ass though , i will not part - take ( haha )
yo , do niggas have man - crushes on em ? i don't even know , but people need to know , it's cob nigga