yo , ice , this shit gon' be really um...
it's a freestyle so it's gon' be
it's gon' be choppy in parts , it's gon' be kinda sloppy
but... it's gon' be from the heart so you know , we gon' capture this moment
i used to sit in my house freestylin to the chronic , 2001 album , the instrumental version
i was in my den rehearsin' , if you woulda told me then i'd fuck with dr. dre one day , i'd say you wildin'
wow , now i be sittin' with him in person , damn
i grew up so poor that this shit was bogus
i told you i wrote my raps on the back of an eviction notice
my momma was in the kitchen blowin' doja , getting loaded
then she quoted " one of these days that shit you spittin' gon' get you noticed
i know , you tired of this government cheese , just know i love you and your mother believes
so many talented people with no self esteem underachieve
so i really want my son to succeed " i love you ma
i was sittin' in the bentley when they hit me on the phone
joey and royce , patrón was all up in royce's tone
he said " crooked you know what we gotta do , right ?
voltron and form a crew , right ? "
along with brooklyn ortiz , i couldn't be more pleased
cause after hip hop weekly , i needed some doors opened and god was giving me some more keys
an onslaught when i came in the door
the best ever on the west , unless your last name is shakur
remember that ? that was a statement for sure
these days , i don't say it no more
niggas know i'm iller than ebola
this shit for the weed rollers
tell the haters " i'm rich , bitch and cc : oprah "
yeah , just a freestyle
you know what i'm sayin like...
for niggas who fuck with me
strictly for the niggas who fuck with me
not these suckas , these new bandwagon suckas
i remember listening to sway & tech , the wake up show
if you was in cali with crazy flow
that was the only place to go to be heard on the radio
but everybody would rip it , biggie , pac , ras kass , eminem and xzibit
i used to sit and listen till it was finished
a couple of months later , i'm up there in the flesh , i'm giving niggas the business
like i left em an llc in my will
speaking of will , i willed it into existence , i built it using persistence
that's when dj clark kent told me , i'm one of the illest on the west , man , that memory never left , man
cause props from the legends , that's the shit that keep you going
when you knowing you so hungry , if you lift up your clothing , your bones and your ribs showing
and your crib got no electricity so a candle was in the dark glowing
i start flowing , picture my words bouncing off the paint , stop flowing
turn this fountain off , i can't , nah i can't
that's why i want the whole tortilla
me and the house gang with eminem in seoul , korea
man i waited for this my whole career
50 , 000 in the crowd , we on the jumbotron , you hoes can see us
you see us
interviewer : and slaughterhouse , a few words about that , hopefully you might give that away
eminem : slaughterhouse , we just waiting to get the deal finished , um... but it's gonna be crazy , i think that record is gonna be crazy and that's gonna be from the making. that's where i might step back in and try to produce a little bit too
interviewer : so shady records is still a priority for you ? something you still really believe in ?
eminem : yeah , definitely. shady records , we're definitely trying to get it back up and running. you know what i mean , we're in the rebuilding process right now
" the will to win , the desire to succeed
the urge to reach your full potential , these are the keys
to unlock the door to your personal excellence "
that's a quote from confucius , i've been using it ever since
music is heaven sent , i knew it even when i couldn't pay a producer 7 cent
or use it to pay my rent
adversity , that could break ya , currency that can change ya
but these days my rhyme pays , i'm stacking major
the money is a gift , but still i must remain outside of the box with all this rapping paper
later...