my niggas been stuntin' since way back when
cnn , i got news for you haters
i'm a nasty ass nigga , ask your bitch , i ain't lying
69 , that's a favor for a favor
them hoes bitin' they lip , cause when i say shit like that she feel some type of way
i hit it from the front , from the side , from the back , i hit it all type of ways
she throw it at me like i'm just one strike away
sometimes life is hard to swallow , but she like to taste
ding - ding - ding - ding - ding my lawyer fight the case
i got them flowers in me , i feel like a vase
monsters in my closet no more closet space
niggas want to be this fly , too many flights to take
enough with the small talk , my girl pussy is a water - park
every little thing i do turn her on ; that's autostart
i kiss every single body part , her body is a work of art
i'm way too high , her skirt too short , i think i love her , it was just a thought
i pop up in that coupe 'bout to go back to the future
and she said , " tune , not in my mouth , " damn you should've said it sooner
i be shittin' on these niggas , like i'm sippin' metamucil
and we smokin' on that gas , pass it like " excuse you "
and it's 6 - 6 - 2's piru all day , my nigga
before these niggas play with us , they'll play dead , my nigga
and if you lookin' for me , i'll be on these bitches' mind
these niggas chicken and i've never seen a chicken fly
my bitch been fussin' at me about nothin'
ain't no tellin' what she'd do if i replace her
like bae , i'm straight , there's plenty fish and i'm bait
we can't even have a decent conversation
i pop the seal on my sip and she be like , " see , you gon' drink your life away "
bitch it's my life , my life , my life shout out mary j
and tell them boys that beef tastes like a slice of cake
and old folks get shot too , they write down license plates
i hope that ho don't call sayin' her cycle late
all this fucking gotta stop , but i need tighter brakes
and don't run from this dick girl , i don't like to chase
i wax that ass , she make that mr. miyagi face
and she ain't all that pretty , but i like her shape
they say numbers don't lie , she shaped like a 8
she say she ain't no dyke , but she gon' dyke today
it's curtains for these niggas i feel like some drapes.
we turnt up niggas , burnt up , stop the microwave
this shit might cost us our life , but that's the price we pay
i'm hotter than the peppers peter piper ate
this that dedication 5 , whattup 5 ?
ay tune' i gotta turn up on the d5 man !
hustle gang , bang , green mean , anybody get it
anything we'll do for the paper
and we live this shit , talk slick get kill't
got nothin' but a tool for a hater ( spent 100k on my wrist nigga ! )
this flooded rollie make you feel some type of way ( i know it do ! )
your ho be on me , know you feel some type of way ( i take your ho ! )
the car i'm drivin' make you feel some type of way ( they can't afford this nigga ! )
the cash i gettin' make you feel some type of way ( bankrolls - r - us ! )
this type of way , know you feel some type of way ( hustle gang my nigga ! )
that shit ain't hot , we out here poppin' that's all i can say ( g.d.o.d ! )
my only problem is tryin' to decide what i'mma drive today ( hustle gang my nigga ! )
we shine all in they face , i know they feel some type of way
i wake up in a multi - million dollar crib get dressed i plan on having a nicer day
when these punk ass rappers keep my name in they mouth , like they some type of gay
you know me dog , so watch what you say ( you better watch your mouth ! )
we ain't playing no games with your lame ass nigga , fuckboy you can die today ( i swear you can ! )
i keep a chopper in my backseat , actually it's my glock partner ( my glock , partner ! )
play crazy if you want to , fuck around and get shot partner ( get shot partner ! )
i don't like these niggas , and really fuck these niggas
talk crazy in ya raps if you want , when you see me you won't touch me nigga ! ( won't touch me niggas ! )
ball all around in my flip flop , you think tip soft ? well then why don’t you try me
if you really gon' be dramatic , we gon' to need some music , they queuein' the violin
i'm talking slow singing , flower bringing
empty a clip in you earing , and you chest thing , and you out the door
this flooded rollie make you feel some type of way ( i know it do ! )
your ho be on me , know you feel some type of way ( i take your ho ! )
the car i’m driving make you feel some type of way ( they can’t afford this nigga ! )
the cash i get it make you feel some type of way ( bankrolls - r - us ! )