hey mr. grumpy gills
when life get's you down you know what you got to do
i don't know what you got to do when life gets you down
just keep swimming , just keep swimming
just keep swimming , swimming , swimming
dory , no singing
what do we do we swim
ho ho ho ho ho ho ho i love to swim
dory , dory
when you want to swim
oh , okay. where ? oh , you want me to sit right here ? look right there ? okay , alright. i got it. well , hello folks , darnell boat here. today , i'mma tell you a little story about my two nephews : lil yachty and lil boat. well , i don't know where to start. look , here's lil boat now...
lil boat !
i got these strange voices inside my head
keep a stack and .380 beside my bed
not to be cool , but in case they run up on me
if y'all bet on my fam , clutch with double on me
went to school on a dirt road with black hoes and potholes
this shit was just then , this was four months
late nights with gang on them store hunts
loitering walmart for pure fun
look at me now , all of my classmates like , " wow "
my teachers like , " damn "
i remember i didn't have not a fan
now i step out and lil boat is the man
woah , this shit is so real
pockets stuffed in with blue bills
so much people trying to ask how it feels
but , nigga , i don't know
everyday i ball like finger roll
how you do it ? only god know
i want to know who's real until the time fold
people looking at lil boat with their hands out cause i'm wearing nicer clothes
i'mma stay down with the same niggas i came up with that's the master plan
26 for a nigga hand , diamonds so cold you might need a fan
i don't know who i am sometimes
i might rap a verse , i might sing a song
came up overnight from one song
one night get her out the thong
old heads hating on boat cause i'm young as fuck and i'm rich as hell
pants low like i'm fresh in jail
but i've been out , motherfuck 12
" see , he's a little , he's a little bit more aggressive. well you know , as this story unfolds , and you know what i'm saying... as the story gets told , i'll tell you a little bit more about yachty. he's a little bit nicer. let's call him. "
hello ? hello ?
oh , oh , ohhh
hello boat , it's so nice to meet you
i'm so glad you came
hello , hello
what's popping ? it's lil yachty , i'm in the party
i need three thotties to come suck on my posse , what's poppin ? woah
hello , hello , hello
hello , hello
hello , hello , hello , hello
hello , hello , hello
oh , hello
welcome to my life
hello , hello , hello