the issue on the table : france is on the verge of war with england
and do we provide aid and our troops to our french allies or do we stay out of it ?
remember , my decision on this matter is not subject to congressional approval
the only person you have to convince is me
secretary jefferson , you have the floor , sir
when we were on death’s door , when we were needy
we made a promise , we signed a treaty
we needed money and guns and half a chance
who provided those funds ?
france
in return , they didn’t ask for land
only a promise that we’d lend a hand
and stand with them if they fought against oppressors
and revolution is messy but now is the time to stand
stand with our brothers as they fight against tyranny
i know that alexander hamilton is here and he
would rather not have this debate
i’ll remind you that he is not secretary of state
he knows nothing of loyalty
smells like new money , dresses like fake royalty
desperate to rise above his station
everything he does betrays the ideals of our nation
ooh ! !
hey , and if ya don’t know , now ya know , mr. president
thank you , secretary jefferson. secretary hamilton , your response
you must be out of your goddamn mind if you think
the president is gonna bring the nation to the brink
of meddling in the middle of a military mess
a game of chess , where france is queen and kingless
we signed a treaty with a king whose head is now in a basket
would you like to take it out and ask it ?
“should we honor our treaty , king louis’ head ? ”
“uh… do whatever you want , i’m super dead.”
enough. hamilton is right
mr. president—
we’re too fragile to start another fight
but sir , do we not fight for freedom ?
sure , when the french figure out who’s gonna lead ‘em
the people are leading—
the people are rioting
there’s a difference. frankly , it’s a little disquieting you would let your ideals blind you to reality
hamilton
sir
draft a statement of neutrality
did you forget lafayette ?
what ?
have you an ounce of regret ?
you accumulate debt , you accumulate power
yet in their hour of need , you forget
lafayette’s a smart man , he’ll be fine
and before he was your friend , he was mine
if we try to fight in every revolution in the world , we never stop
where do we draw the line ?
so quick - witted
alas , i admit it
i bet you were quite a lawyer
my defendants got acquitted
yeah. well , someone oughta remind you
what ?
you’re nothing without washington behind you
hamilton !
daddy’s calling !