( intro )
can you guess.. who am i , what am i ?
what the fuck i'm looking like ?
can u see me and you ? can u see , can u see me and you ?
( verse1 : little simz )
yo ! they call me j. arce , the alien
homes yea , i'm straight invading them
vegetarian , half hungarian
hi - are my eyes low ? i'm half asian
half amazing , half creative , half and half , make one
i'm the one , the only one , my brothers atilla the hun
his a bullet and im the gun , trees in my lungs
i kill beats for fun
i spread peace n love , but hate ur piece of mind
dont shit the irony
u always knew there was a different side to me
vibe wiv me , burn shit down , yea theres a fire in me
u don't wanna see the lion in me
nah , pisces and my mind sees , through things
new things don't excite me
quietly in the back , don't say much
but when i talk u will learn when i speak
i see more than what they can't teach
don't try bop ur head to my beats
shits weird , shits fucked buts it's vibey
might do what can't be done , might sing what can't be sung
might walk the catwalk for fun , might not , might roll a blunt
don't box me in , might lock u out
try ur luck , stop tappin ur watch , ur times up
space age is the team , no " i " in us
see u in the back , stop eyein us
spot those rappers over there , might die of lust
how many times we gotta tell ya , stop trying us
i'mmmm in beast mode , don't think too much be a free soul
in the space station , head gone
ask chuck20 , he knows , he knows
( hook )
just vibe wiv me , if not get high wiv me
dealing wiv the pressure , still no pressure , oh the irony
still remain my cool , even when these fools are trying me
everybody wants to know ur business , wheres the privacy ?
can u guess who , ( guess who ) this is ( this is )
i came ( i came ) from space ( from space )
guess who ( guess who ) this is ( this is )
i been here ( i been here ) all day ( all day )
( verse 1 : josh arcé )
ayyyy , they call me 20 , don't ask why
running thru the city , in my 1 10s and my white socks
they call me chucks , cos i laugh right tho
don't ask who the best is , is it not i , this
too bloodclart raw , im rare u can't chew , this here
if i knew , it'll soon be clear why im here
changing mind , always changing my mind
troubles making my mind up , but still i choose to do this here
without a doubt i know this , & ma of course im not hard to notice
i raised my self , didn't ask for olders
im asking questions , to argue points
my open mind , is so inclined , to know what i dont know
i tried to know , what life is and on my own
& i'm rolling tight , i hold it tight
i hold my own im not the type to float , but whateva floats ur boat
im on a mission wiv the vision i saw
i ain't tryna listen if it isnt what u saw
never spittin fiction , im a livin roman try to... ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
i just carry meaning and meaning is in the reason
the reasons what u believe in , so believe
don't ask who space is , i don't wanna hear it
i don't wanna hear u moaning or groaning
or boasting or gloating
i won't feel sorry for anybody hoping thooooo
hold up , hold up
you don't wanna see me show up
i will show u the sickness of what sick is
i might just make u throw up !
don't ask who the shit is , cos shits ridiculous
don't make me pissed off it , it will scare u shitless
i'm more descriptive , than my depiction , in the space station wiv space ? ? ? ?
( hook )
just vibe wiv me , if not get high wiv me
dealing wiv the pressure , still no pressure , oh the irony
still remain my cool , even when these fools are trying me
everybody wants to know ur business , wheres the privacy ?
can u guess who , ( guess who ) this is ( this is )
i came ( i came ) from space ( from space )
guess who , ( guess who ) this is ( this is )
i been here ( i been here ) all day ( all day )
( verse 3 : chuck20 )
ohh , bitch im a king , tell me where my throne
steady buildin my empire , the limits are my desire
your bullshit won't take me higher , i dont need boss folks
rapping it since i was nine , i just dont believe the timeline
nigga dont panic , been in that space , different planets
came wiv our space , won't vanish
i'm simz imma take those grammys
& sip summin at those grammys
how i write the truth , came n changed ur view
nigga dont wait , no time will wait for u
gimme da mic , i might light a flame for u
taking whats mine , i won't mind to save u some
u know what i be on , listenin to my songs
like.. roll one to my songs , ( buil' it )
oh , how u feeling
age 101 sane izzy
age 101 drop , couple drop drop
popped off , won't stop , drop 4 coming up
won't stop , wait till the drop drop
dropped off , my thoughts at the top
watching motherfuckers topple to the bottom
at the bottom , im not wiv em
yea im little simz but not little , listening to marsh instrumentals
making a legacy , i dare u to be a better me , it'll never be
imma only bee buzzin a penalty in colosseums
how i see em , it's just me n space age the theory of
can't change the theory no
dont dictate the meaning of
don't pisstake , man this way , switch lanes
kill it wiv the flow , no i dont miss base
& if i get up on the stage , it'll be a shutdown
its my house , in my house its lights out when i shout
( repeat intro )
( repeat hook )