it's the type of shit that they read about
like chris said , i gotta bleed it out
i've been in the zone , i can't be without
this real shit that i be about
i'm a visionary , that's long term
but def jam , said they need it out
if i rush this shit , i might be without
but i need a vision , can't see without
i've been patient , never complacent
left the underground when i left the basement
that's renovation , i spit this verse like a revelation
on the road with kid cudi and big
conversations with no i.d
who made hits with ye , got hits with jay
now he wanna fuck around and make hits with me
if it's meant to be , then it's meant to be
can't express what that meant for me , what it mean to me
man , i swear the shit like a dream to me , what it seemed to be
it's so different now , everything is so different now
i've been there and i've done that
tell 'em all that i run that , that's a fun fact
and i'm back again cause i love this shit
write it down and they publish it
i went 5 years without a publicist
cause the word of mouth they in love with this
i've been dreaming , i've been scheming
went away a while but i've been fiending
i've missed the fam , but they know the deal
been at it way before the deal
now the music got mass appeal
my main girl got ass appeal
like i feel the vibe , that's the main thing
little fish , that went mainstream
now i'm big as fuck
my whole city , they know what's up
i'm unseen and i'm in the cut about extra shit
i don't give a fuck
when i'm on the phone , don't interrupt
if i'm talking business , i might erupt
if you're at the show , put your lighter up
fuck with me if you're really bout it
outsiders , i could do without it
i crept in , got slept on
sold out shows , no one knew about it
when it comes to fucks , i give two about it
your cosign , i could do without it
na , na , na , na , na , na
na , na , na , na , na , na...
okay , last verse i gotta make it count
won't speak on my bank account
so many commas i'd have to pause
and i can't afford to just waste the bars
every day boy i thank the lord
i got a lot of problems but could have more
wish i spoke to my dad more , my jeweler less
i been hungry like budapest
tell me who the best , don't give a fuck
i just know i'm blessed
love life even though i'm stressed
this business boy , i swear a test
tell def jam if they don't cut the check
i'll send chris to go cut their neck
i love the building , no disrespect
but y'all better ride when i'm in effect
that's radio , that's tv , but visionary got the internet
if y'all fuck around or try to throw the ball to another artist
i'mma intercept ; it's my time
put half a mill of my own money in this album
that's my dime ; no rap features , just my rhymes
my story , it's all mine , from the basement to the stadium
from the roxy to palladium
i've been there and i've done that , yes i run that
with this pretty girl on my floor
half naked playing connect four
but i've been trying to throw sex out the window
just to connect more
she so fine , type of girl i wanna fuck her mind
and then unwind with some slow head
all my homies like go 'head
anyway , it's been a long time
and this here has been a long rhyme , so i gotta go
it's logic , the one nobody would vouch for
how's that shit for an outro ?
na , na , na , na , na , na
na , na , na , na , na , na...
this is my story , 'till the end
na , na , na , na , na , na
na , na , na , na , na , na...
this is my story , 'till the end
yeah yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah
y - yeah , yeah yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah
yeah yeah...
every day that they live and breathe is extended to them !
they may be misinformed about the truth , they may be misguided— somebody has led them on the wrong path !
a path of corruption and destruction ! but yet , god's mercy every day that they live is extended to them and they have another opportunity to be saved...
yeah yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah
y - yeah , yeah yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah
yeah yeah...
yeah yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah
y - yeah , yeah yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah
yeah yeah...
this concludes the under pressure program...