carrera ( dumb it down ! )
coolest nigga , what ? ( dumb it down ! )
f - n - f , up ! ( dumb it down ! )
( dumb it down ! )
i'm fearless , now hear this , i'm earless
and i'm peerless , that means i'm eyeless
which means i'm tearless , which means my iris
resides where my ears is , which means i'm blinded
but i'ma find it , i can feel its nearness
but i'ma veer so i don't come near
like a chicken or a deer , but i remember
i'm not a listener or a seer so my windshield smear
here you steer , i really shouldn't be behind this
clearly cause my blindness ; the windshield is menstrual/minstrel
the whole grill is roadkill , so trill and so sincere
yeah , i'm both them there
took both pills when the bloke in the trench coat
and the locs in the chair had approached him here
made it clear as a ghost or a biter of the throats in the mirror
the writer of the quotes for the ghosts
who supplier of the notes to the living
riveting as rosie , pockets full of posies
given to the mother of the deceased
awake and at war 'til i'm resting in peace
you going over niggas heads , lu ( dumb it down ! )
they telling me that they don't feel you ( dumb it down ! )
we ain't graduate from school , nigga ( dumb it down ! )
them big words ain't cool , nigga ( dumb it down ! )
yeah i heard " mean and vicious " , nigga ( dumb it down ! )
make a song for the bitches , nigga ! ( dumb it down ! )
we don't care about the weather nigga ( dumb it down ! )
you'll sell more records if you ( dumb it down ! )
and i'm mouthless , which means i'm soundless
now as far as the hearing , i've found it
it was as far as the distance from the earring to the ground is
but the doorknockers on the ear of a stewardess in a lear
she's fine and she's flying , i feel i'm flying by 'em
cause my mind's on cloud nine and in a mine at the same time
pimps see the wings on the underground king
who's also klingon , to infinity and beyond
something really stinks , but i sphinx like leon
or lion in the desert
i'm flying on pegasus , you're flying on a pheasant
writer of the white powder , picker of the fire flowers
spit , " hot fiya " like dylan on chappelle's skit
yeah , smell it on my unicorn
don't snort the white horse , but toot my own horn
sleep
you've been shedding too much light , lu ( dumb it down ! )
you make 'em wanna do right , lu ( dumb it down ! )
they're gettin' self - esteem , lu ( dumb it down ! )
these girls are trying to be queens , lu ( dumb it down ! )
they're trying to graduate from school , lu ( dumb it down ! )
they're startin' to think that smart is cool , lu ( dumb it down ! )
they're trying to get up out the hood , lu ( dumb it down ! )
i'll tell you what you should do ( dumb it down ! )
and i'm brainless , which means i'm headless
like ichabod crane is
or foreplay - less sex is , which makes me saneless
with no neck left to hang the chain with
which makes me necklace - less , like a necklace theft
and i ain't used my headrest yet
they said they need proof like a vestless chest
about the best - fed f - f jet in the nest
who exudes confidence and excess depth
even scuba steve would find it hard to breathe
around these leagues ; my snorkel is a tuba
lu the ruler around these seas
westside poseidon , westside beside 'em
chest - high and rising , almost touching the knees
of stewardess and the pilot , lucky they make ya fly with
personal floating devices , tricks falling out of my sleeves
david blaine , make it rain
you make a boat , i make a plane
then , i pull the plug and i make it drain
until i feel like flowing and filling it up again
westside !
you putting me to sleep , nigga ( dumb it down ! )
that's why you ain't popping in the streets , nigga ! ( dumb it down ! )
you ain't winning no awards nigga ! ( dumb it down ! )
robots and skateboards , nigga ? ! ( dumb it down ! )
gq man of the year , g ? ( dumb it down ! )
shit ain't rocking over here , b ( dumb it down ! )
won't you talk about your cars nigga ? ( dumb it down ! )
what the fuck is goyard nigga ( dumb it down ! )
make it rain for the chicks ( dumb it down ! )
po' champagne on a bitch ! ( dumb it down ! )
what the fuck is wrong with you ? ! ( dumb it down ! )
...how can i get on a song with you ? ( dumb it down ! )
look b , here's my main , my two - way
uh , what should i , ah , here take this
that right there , fuck what my boys'll talk about me , nigga
nigga , you hot to me ! i like you ! ( dumb it down ! )
bishop g , they told me i should come down , cousin
but i flatly refuse : i ain't dumb down nothing !