look , i'm posing a question
how many been empty and holding aggression ?
close to depression
open your eyes and just focus a second
fuck a recession , my brother
my mind is my weapon , i'm letting it go
loading and pointing at negative energy
telling me stop , they're telling me no ( don't )
your aura is something you ain't even sure of
explore the core of california , whores got more to snort up
i've had a smorgasbord of pornographic thought
that's a lot , the feeling come after the shock
praise me i'd rather you not
cause it's driving me crazy
the fact that you pay to make me into something i love
you come to the club searching for drugs
drunk , fucking these sluts
god loves me , what if he does , what does it mean ?
you're wasting away doing nothing , you're fronting
why ain't you chasing your dreams ?
we wonder 'bout life but none of us willing to learn
the money we earn is something to burn
why won't they give me a turn out ?
feed the hungry and clothe the naked
you're mistaken the world is cold and it's lonely ain't it
when 'em high roller homes in vegas
raid 'em with some home invasions
contaminating the place with plague , we just saved the day
i waste away in a room spitting these raps
yahweh put the world in my hands , i'm giving it back
it's a gift
our , our time to be alive
no earthly vehicle
can contain this drive
it's a gift
our , our time to be alive
no earthly vehicle
can contain this drive
forfeit in the war , he lays a sword down and walks away
grabs a 40 from the corner store and begins to contemplate
dealing with death like he work in the morgue
absorbing the souls
forgotten , he lost his way
starring down that barrel , thinking not today
life's so precious , lord knows that life is so precious
fight to the death , 'til there's nobody left
you're holding your breath because you might get infected
i'm animalistic , instinctively thinking i'm getting ballistic
be specific , to those who in control we all statistics
misogynistic with a twisted mind , i'm intertwined
my trigger finger itching , all i kill is time
initial symptoms of schizophrenic behavior
the mind is like religion , can't agree on who's its savior
the newest flavor of superhero , i'm shooting lasers
except i'm cool with vader
and blowing up rooms that's full of strangers
a news anchor , the youth can relate to , it's nature
if you're a hater , i'll deal with you later , no thank you
i'm just your neighbor , please don't do me no favors
really doe , come on homie , we major
i waste away in this room spitting out raps
yahweh put the world in my hands , i'm giving it back
it's a gift
our , our time to be alive
no earthly vehicle
can contain this drive
it's a gift
our , our time to be alive
no earthly vehicle
can contain this drive
it's just a different time , man , it's just a different time. there was a time , when we showed love. you know like how we , approach a young lady , you see a beautiful young lady you like , you say " damn , man. " you're gorgeous , i'll take off my coat right now and , lay it down on the puddle and , make sure you don't miss a step. you know what i'm talking bout , young man ? see all these bitches , hoes , thots ? i just don't understand it. i don't know what's to come of you , young man