we not asking mothafuckers to care about us
we just letting mothafuckas know we coming
it's real , it's a real mothafuckin' movement
whether you like it or not
whether you support it or not
it's a real mothafuckin' movement , man
it's cleveland man
i am the alpha omega , black flag swinger
fuck a driveway i’m in airplane hangers
me and my gang poppin' champagne like players
for all of them days with no lights and no cable
no one can save you , my city’s fatal
make it up out of it how can they hate you ?
c - l - e - v - e - l - a - n - d’s the greatest
i'll light this bitch up make it look like its vegas
we on , mufucka we on
the first one to blow since bone
thinking back when i had a back pack full of fat raps
didn’t no one wanna hear my song
mufucka y’all wrong , mufucka y’all wrong
made it and i never left home
where i’m from enemies bust off their shells like king koopa
roll through these streets come up gone like bermuda
i’m just a boy in the hood like i’m cuba
so soon as i moved out i bought me a ruger
you come to my house you blow loud as a tuba
i bring your bitch here , she'll go down like a scuba
all of y’all shits out of style like a scooter
put all of y’all shits in the ditch like a sewer
make all of y’all bow like my name is anubis
talk out your medulla get hit with bazookas
( bitch ! )
i am the alpha , i am the omega
( what ? )
i am the alpha , i am the omega
( ahh ! )
i am the alpha , i am the omega
( ay ! )
i am the alpha , i am the omega
if you ain’t living your life then you’re dead
and sleep is its cousin so i shot my bed
paranoia got me using these meds
now i'm smokey as chris on a friday like craig
retract that statement , i'm stoney as fred
evacuate when my homies get mad
you better pray to your god for a blessing
before they make your world look like armageddon
knew i was trouble since i was 11
ripped up my jeans and i bought me a leather
my friends saw me as a king like coretta
my dad saw his son as a nuisance , a rebel , and ( ahh ! )
my music sounds like the devil
turn that shit off or get out of my temple
right after that he’d go back to his kettle one vodka
and drink it all up till he's mental
i have no issue , i am official
let them come at me i practice jiu jitsu
only fear two things with three letters dawg
that's g - o - d , god and my fucking initials
doctors called up to the news to report to them what they discovered
said i’m the first of a species that they call a real muthafucka , ( kells )
and i’m sorry if you get a lot of hits from all my followers
if you acknowledge us in any other way then positive
but you shouldn’t be hollering or talking about superman
when you're living in metropolis
and if you follow astronomy i’m a taurus
that means i don’t give a fuck what you thought of me
i walk into an interview looking like a lobotomy
flipping my middle finger at everybody who watching us , ( uh )
fuck that bring the beat back
kill this instrumental leave the body where the reef at
nah , fuck that where the keef at
sprinkle a little bit on a quarter of my weed sack
give me a minute i took a hit i'm tryna focus like astigmatism
my competition on my dick , they're like the zip on my denim
they want the heat i light em up like i put cigarettes in 'em
you bitch , whats your religion ?
i wanna know what god you’re seeing in a couple of seconds
i wanna see the criticism bout my lyricism
when i’m in your face rippin' this rhythm up like canabalism
its kells
( bitch ! )
i am the alpha , i am the omega
( what ? )
i am the alpha , i am the omega
( ahh ! )
i am the alpha , i am the omega
( ay ! )
i am the alpha , i am the omega
i am the alpha omega , the fuck is you saying ?
i am the alpha omega , the fuck is you saying ?
i am the alpha omega , the fuck is you saying ?
est run shit you better quit playing
they start a war if you mention my name
i’m the alpha omega
beginning and end