day 1 :
such a fascinating change in the traditional journalistic press over the last several years...
used to be : corrections to printed news stories were a really big deal , high bar to get accepted. story as printed = permanent record.
now : even top print newspapers frequently revise stories online , sometimes dozens of times , often w/no change tracking or acknowledgement.
glass 1/2 full view : stories get better and better in place over time , vector closer to truth. accuracy over time goes up. all good.
glass 1/2 empty view : quality bar for initial post can be lower , original work sloppier , since can correct in place as much/often as needed.
deterministic " truth " vs probabilistic " truth " - - here it is/take it or leave it , vs here it is/subject to arbitrary ongoing revision.
print journalism converging in technique ( ? ) and quality ( ? ) towards blogs , wikipedia - - for better or worse ( or both ) .
ed bott fully decoded this with original nsa prism news stories.
so i am very interested to see how capital - j journalism can maintain reputation for truth , accuracy vs blogs , wikipedia. stakes very high.
or , we may be entering new golden age of journalism , just not recognized yet - - best of all worlds , accuracy rising , closer to truth ?
day 2 :
enthusiastic response to last series of tweets on evolution in the news business , so here are a bunch more thoughts.
starting point : i am more optimistic/bullish about future of news industry over next 20 years than almost anyone i know. will grow 10x - 100x.
part 1/5 : the news business is a business like any business , and can and should be analyzed and run like a business.
thinking of news as a business is not only not bad for quality objective journailsm , but is pro quality objective journalism.
a healthy business is the foundation for being able to build high quality products , and to do so sustainably. including journalism.
analyzed as a business , the news industry is going through a fundamental restructuring and transformation , for worse and for better.
the main change is that news businesses 1946 - 2005 were mostly monopolies and oligopolies , and now they're not. wrenching change for anyone.
doesn't mean that great news businesses can't get built in highly competitive markets , just that they get built differently than before.
in particular , monopoly/oligopoly structure of newspapers , magazines , broadcast tv news pre - '05 meant restricted choice , overly high prices.
in other words , the key to the old businesses was control of distribution way more than anyone ever wanted to admit. wonderful while lasts.
now , with everyone on internet , three things are happening simultaneously :
( 1 ) distribution going from locked down to completely open , anyone can create & distribute , no $ premium for control of distribution.
( 2 ) formerly separate industries colliding on internet. newspaper vs magazine vs broadcast tv vs cable tv vs wire service , now all compete.
( 3 ) market size dramatically expanding - - many more people consume news now vs 10 - 20 yrs ago , many more still in 10 - 20 yrs. big , big deal.
1 & 2 drive prices down. 3 drives volume up. right now everyone obsessed with 1 and 2. ultimately most important is 3. market size=destiny.
big opportunity for news industry in next 5 - 10 yrs is to increase market size 100x , drop prices 10x. become larger & much more important.
part 2/5 : construction and reconstruction of business models - - how to make $.
picking up from part 1 : best news about news business is gigantic expansion of addressable market - - rise of developing world + internet.
total addressable market for news by 2020 : ~5 billion people worldwide ; straight extrapolate from # of cell phones - > smartphones globally.
however , we all have to get more sophisticated about defining and segmenting markets. critical to really understand who , where , when , why.
many evolving markets seeing " death of middle " : broadest breadth winning ; deepest depth winning ; neither broadest nor deepest in trouble.
so logical to expect big winners in news business to either be the broadest or the deepest : to max mass or go max specific.
with that as backdrop , here are most obvious 8 business models for news now & in the future ; each business should mix & match as relevant :
( 1 ) advertising. still central for many news businesses. but need to get out of " race to bottom " of bad content , bad advertisers , bad ads.
quality journalism businesses need to either take responsibility for own high - quality advertisers & ads , or work with partners who do.
there is no excuse for crappy network - served teeth whitening and " one weird trick " ads served against high quality content. disastrous.
( 2 ) subscriptions. many consumers pay $ for things they value much of the time. if they're unwilling to pay , ask q , are they really valuing ?
( 3 ) premium content. paid tier on top of free ad - supported. high end e.g. : bloomberg & reuters. will work for more & more. again , value = $.
( 4 ) conferences & events. bits becoming abundant ; human presence becoming scarce. charge for scarcity. bits drive demand for presence.
( 5 ) cross - media. i think tina brown was right but too early w/talk. news key source of material for books , tv , film - - also growth businesses.
( 6 ) crowdfunding. gigantic opportunity esp for investigative journalism. match people with interest in topic to reporting. click = vote = $.
( helpful hint : start today with @crowdtilt - - easy as pie , no brainer. )
( 7 ) bitcoin for micropayments. easy to get started now ( @coinbase ) ; as consumer use scales up , easy to ask for small $ w/low or no fees.
( 8 ) philanthropy. today @propublica & @firstlookmedia , tomorrow could get much larger. ~$300b/yr philanthropy in us alone. underutilized.
in addition , as my friend jim barksdale says , " two ways to make money in business : you can unbundle , or you can bundle. " or , rebundle.
we already see the rise of new kinds of aggregators in the wake of the great unbundling of newspapers & magazines. another thread to pull.
one frequent critique of brave new world is , " won't oceans of crap drive out quality content ? " i don't think so , in fact the opposite.
on internet , no limitation to # of outlets , voices ; therefore quality can easily coexist with crap. all can thrive in respective markets.
and , the more noise , confusion , and crap - - corresponding increase in need for trusted guides , respected experts , quality brands.
finally , the " investigative journalism problem " - - how to fund investigative journalism , believed to be least commercially viable type.
answer #1 : total global expense budget of all investigative journalism is tiny - - ~$10s of millions only. small $ problems easier to solve.
answer #2 : crowdfunding + philanthropy + subsidization by otherwise healthy news businesses should easily cover invst journ & even increase.
same answer to " baghdad bureau problem " - - conflict zone reporting super - important ; expensive vs other reporting ; but not that much $ total.
remember : most great businesses are not big businesses. this market plenty big enough for thousands of high - margin small - medium businesses.
( ... to be continued ... )