i'm delighted to announce that andreessen horowitz is investing $15 million in rap genius.
given that rap genius is a web site where people explain rap lyrics , and given that my partner ben is a noted rap fanatic , your first reaction might be , " that horowitz guy has completely lost his mind. " i , on the other hand , find rap every bit as comprehensible as ancient mesopotamian. that's why i'm writing this blog post – not him. let me explain why we've invested in rap genius...
first , there is the undeniable , irrepressible phenomenon that rap genius already is – the definitive online community of rap aficionados ; one of the fastest growing web sites in y combinator's history ; a thriving ecosystem of ideas , artists , and fans.
second , there is the stellar team. rap genius has the rare balance you always hope for in a startup team – three founders , each with unique skills , who mesh perfectly. mahbod is the most brilliant community creator we've seen since caterina fake's heyday at flickr. ceo tom shares jeff bezos's d.e. shaw pedigree and codes up a storm. and former " deadwood " writer ilan serves as impresario and runs the show.
but that's just the start. it turns out that rap genius has a much bigger idea and a much broader mission than that. which is : generalize out to many other categories of text... annotate the world... be the knowledge about the knowledge... create the internet talmud.
there’s music in other genres and other languages , but what other categories ? poetry , literature , the bible , political speeches , legal texts , science papers. and those are just the start. we think the community will continue to expand beyond rap into all culture. the potential of this company is large.
finally , there's the other reason – maybe even the real reason – why i'm so fired up about this idea and this investment.
only a handful of people know that the big missing feature from the web browser – the feature that was supposed to be in from the start but didn't make it – is the ability to annotate any page on the internet with commentary and additional information.
back in 1993 , when eric bina and i were first building mosaic , it seemed obvious to us that users would want to annotate all text on the web – our idea was that each web page would be a launchpad for insight and debate about its own contents. so we built a feature called " group annotations " right into the browser – and it worked great – all users could comment on any page and discussions quickly ensued. unfortunately , our implementation at that time required a server to host all the annotations , and we didn't have the time to properly build that server , which would obviously have had to scale to enormous size. and so we dropped the entire feature.
i often wonder how the internet would have turned out differently if users had been able to annotate everything – to add new layers of knowledge to all knowledge , on and on , ad infinitum. and so , 20 years later , rap genius finally gives us the opportunity to find out. it's an ambitious mission , and one we are proud to get behind.