what are you doing home from school so early ?
you shouldn't be back for another two hours
now answer me... what are you doing home ?
( i got suspended ) suspended ? for what ?
( nothing ) a good student like you , don't get suspended for nothing
now why were you sent home ? ( cuz i'm black ! )
bangin' on the lunchroom table , i used to spectate
and watch some of the m.c. greats
throw verses back and forth , i didn't have the heart to step forth
i used to take it home to write some of my own
but still i wasn't ready to touch the mic - phone
the back staircases of school was filled with blunt residue
a broken lightbulb and the crew , a man or two
bangin' on the wall while a few m.c.'s , shoot the breeze
i'm just passin' through , i might've took two off the trees
we fiend for this hip hop quarantine
listen out for the walkie talkies of the dean ( security coming... )
*beat switch*
bododo.. school !
sat in the back of the class with my hand up
two wild security guards , grabbed my man up
threw him in detention for 5 days suspension
cause he said , the teacher was lyin about the indians
tryin to dumb us with the story of columbus
and brain - numb us , when all you see , that came from us
they copy - carvin , i learned about god and
taggin wu logo on the book margin
intense like a new york riot , she stood quiet
and asked me , could she speak to me in private
( mr. diggs , you actin' like a fool... ) huh ?
( you know these rules that we have in these schools ) yeah..
( you and your friends think y'all cool ) why ?
( cuz ya'll walk through these halls with the 12 jewels )
fat shoe laces and tri - colored sneakers
i stood like a man then i questioned my teacher
why don't we speak about the wisdom of the sages ?
and how did europe black out in the dark ages ?
and when they got light did they white - wash the pages ?
and the inquisition , why was christian's thrown in cages ?
and why would they try to destroy the nation ?
with their birth control and bring control fluoridation ?
and why it seems that half the school is racist ?
she said " diggs , to the office ! " we about faces..
headed my paper with the proper title
who wrote the holy koran or bible ?
bein' that person with the scent ability
makes me responsible for the uncivil
the next morning as i entered the building
a cypher goin' on and the gods is building
my hot chocolate spillin' , after 5th period
let's cut out , go bag some chicks up at tilden
wonderful had the rental , " nobody beats the biz "
instrumental , attractin' a few
nothin' really poppin' , let's slide to clara barton
bumped into a few good brothers from morgas martin
mentioned norman thomas , had chicks
that'll hit flicks , and take you shopping , true indeed
i thought sarah j. had the one that i need
mary burtrum , julia richmond , is it fashion ?
eli whitney sing the song with me
sisters from washington irv. swing a arm
brothers in death , pull the fire alarm
rude ones flow rapness , western house money makers
maxwell thunder hip shakers..
they not on my level , but i can sit with the o.g.'s from there
and make it major , youknowhatimean ? ( that's what's nigga )
right , but , we not doing that until we get this business settled
and even while we doing that , we try'nna get the wu - tang niggas
cuz i love them niggas , i feel as though
they represent the east coast , how we represent the west coast
and i love them... *echoes*