i want two beef patties , special sauce , onions , tomatoes
lettuce , on a sesame seed bun... on a a sesame seed bun , you big dummy !
dah - dah - dah - deh - duhhhhhh ( i want two beef patties )
dah - dah - dah - deh - duhhhhhh ( with onions... special sauce )
dah - dah - dah - deh - duhhhhhh ( cheese on the special sauce sesame seed bun ! )
dah - dah - dah - deh - duhhhhhh ( you big dummy ! )
dah - dah - dah - deh - duhhhhhh
i rock the mic and make the crowd said " ho ! "
people if you ready to ride , then let's go
the older the wine , the more vintage
each sentence , mature like stock dropped on beat
sold in it's highest peak , the black panther
call him for the answer , the shadow dancer
no cure for the cancer , carefully approach this near - ville approach
tension in the street , we stressed and wanna eat
supply , meet the demand for those who get high
sly & the family , carve my name in stone , peace to angie
on and on , chief jay strong'
.44 long , state today's math and what's ya name born
the abbott had his head reflectin' off the chrome
bank loan for a mil' , oprah , hold me down like dr. phil
this is napsack rap , oint joint gas
my gats point at you now you can't point back
penetratin' skulls , i'm diggin' holes like the mole
my sword will not dull
my daily toil's : to protect the earth so the seeds won't spoil
ya frankenstein type mind like peter boil
hooked on that power - u , money , weed , power , too
powerful god - u , fine booze , lines of snooze {*inhales*}
clouds of smoke , we smoke to daybreak
we keep the leaves soaked , in that pc
y'all best to run when y'all see me
i'm like godzilla stompin' through mt. fiji
on his way to tokyo
you hollow block head tell lies like pinochio
flip the nokio phone , call my nigga t.s
" how you want the triple x rock cut ? v.s. ? "
or princess , or simply solid
the prince word is worth more than the wallet
doggy doggy ! we'll steal your bone !
doggy doggy ! we'll steal your bonnnne !
doggy doggy ! we'll steal your bone !
doggy doggy ! ( i said ! ) we'll steal your bone !
i said , two beef patties , special sauce
onions , tomatoes , lettuce on a sesame seed bun
on a sesame seed bun , you big dummy ! !
dah - dah - dah - deh - duhhhhhh
dah - dah - dah - deh - duhhhhhh
dah - dah - dah - deh - duhhhhhh
dah - dah - dah - deh - duhhhhhh