you are watching a master at work..
( haha , haha , yeah , haha... )
steppin' live in the place , smackin' blood out his face
it's the principal , don't get it wrong
what i do to eat , is nothing in comparison
to what i do to keep , self up , right and exact
sway the mac' if i have to defend the castle
slang lasso , ropin' them til they recoup
pass the keys to the coupe , it's cute for wiz to scoot off , '95 north
cut from the cloth of king , who bare struggle
in this life line , theology of time
move with our major motion to the mic
to recite the dart that i have written
light exists in the darkness , instant gratification
how far can you travel to mic spar ?
water is the softest substance in the world
at yet , it can penetrate the hardest , rock
or , anything granite , you name it
umm.. water also is insubstantial ; by that i mean
you cannot grasp hold of it , you cannot punch it and hurt it
( yeah , yeah , yeah... )
see the god light gleam so bright , i gain birth to
that you attract you , heart so fuller
make you wanna pull your trigger and get rid a
shiny bald militant head like lou gossett
he's walkin' with the shinin' lamp of knowledge
glory be the law , with the justice sword
supreme being , all i seeing , radiant son
imperishable absolute , ya'll salute
approximately three mil' , bodies like an empty vessels
i must fill , check where i came from
any god seal a mason is my sun
in this scene , lesson number one , for the dumb
if he ain't true and living , son , then i never heard of one
pack your gun , one on one , come and get some
water... now you put water into a cup... , it becomes the cup
you put water into a bottle , it becomes the bottle
you put it in a tea pot , it becomes the tea pot
now water can flow , or it can crash..
be water , my friend... ( yo , heh , yo )
yo , i thought the sign read : " no colors allowed "
well how then , give me a few , just listen
instead of wasting time , try'nna grab them back
the dominant magnetic will always attract
the under - life , quoting him , describe the beat
now eminem , for example , just another sample
of your worst nightmare , coming back at you
so beautiful designed , the places of time , to see
everything that has been , always will be
now figure out the riddle , the never ending cycle
born in his self , back into the circle
i'm thankful for the blessing , testing of the lessons
answers and questions , trials and tribulations
that were set upon me , it's hard for some to see
but it's clear as day to me..
be water , my friend..