sameoldshawn : so he actually put a hit out on you guys , right ?
mc serch : yes. he put a hit out on us with mike concepcion and the rollin' crips in la. $50 , 000 bounty
sameoldshawn : how did you find out about that ?
mc serch : we were flying to la on our way to our album release party. louis burell - one of the burell brothers - called def jam's office to talk to a woman named carmen asher - swanson , and was like " are the 3rd bass guys going to la ? " and they were like " uh , yeah , they're on their way to their party. " and he said , " good ; they're dead " and kinda hung up the phone. no one kinda understood what that meant , so russell gets put in the mix with it. and basically has to find out what's going on. so they call eric b , and eric b says , " let me make some calls. " and sure enough , eric b finds out through his connections that yeah , there's a hit out on us. so we're in the air , we're on our way to la. they got to piecemeal all this together. lyor had a guy that used to do security for run dmc who worked at rush. his name is big d ; he's from la. they put him on a plane , like they sent him to jfk to get on a plane immediately. by hook or by crook , they find out that the guy who's in charge of the hit is this guy named mike concepcion , god bless the dead. mike was already paralyzed from the waist down due to gang violence , but he was still that dude. they get mike on the phone , and they said , " listen , mike , we're from def jam. we hear there's a hit out on 3rd bass. " and he's like " yeah , yeah. my man paid me , it's on and poppin'. " and they're like , " can't happen. gotta avoid that from happening. how do we avoid that from happening ? " and mike said , " well , because you called we won't kill them but we'll break their legs from the waist down so they can still do television. " and again it was like , " well , we need them unscathed. how do we make this happen where they're unscathed ? we can't have anything violent happen. " so that night - the next night was the american music awards.
so mike says , " well , i'm working on this project called we're all in the same gang , trying to , you know , anti - violence thing for capitol , i'm having a hard time getting distribution , maybe you can help me find a label for it. eazy - e's on the project ; hammer's on the project ; all these people are on the project. maybe you can help me. oh and i want to sit next to michael jackson tomorrow night at the amas. " um , so they're like , " we'll call you right back. " so they call donnie einer , who at the time was the chairman of columbia who was distributing our record , and they said to donnie , " we need your tickets for the amas. " and he was like , " no. " and they were like , " no , no , no , you don't understand. we need your tickets so this guy can sit next to michael jackson... " explains it to donnie and donnie says " fine. " so they call mike concepcion and they say " no problem , you got it , you're sitting next to michael jackson at the amas. but we gotta make sure that nothing bad happens to these guys , nothing at all. "