so y'all thought i was comin back with some old r&b huh ?
check it...
here it , comes !
yo , here it is or there it was
but where was it when you need it ? because
you fall to the waistline when you waste rhymes
serch got it flowin when it comes to fat beats and basslines
i heard the rumors and the fables
remove them like the tumors on the tables
boomers for the willing and the able
so turn to the next page in your manual and flim - flam , all over the jam !
chill , lounge
kick your ten little toes up at the edge of this
razor blade and save your spade
as the groove plummets you to another dimension
may i just mention
this is a map , it's for all made for climbin
and you're stuck to your grip like an aluminum sidin
hiding in the back is for crumbs
and here it comes !
hit it off
kick it off
hit it off
here it , comes !
b - boys , decoys will try to destroy
deploy the truth in black hoods and black boots
caps get rocked only when they're fitted
lyrics get dropped only when they're lifted
so swing to the swell up , the vo chords run amuck
whatup ? whatup ? i got mine and you got yours
war's a factor , we'll perspire
and someone in the crowd yells , " fire ! fire ! "
" we don't need no water , let it burn , yo , burn , yo !
" we don't need no water let it burn.... " so it burnt
learn your lesson well , if i don't then i guess you get gelled
swell , heads go down like the sun
and here it comes
fiddle - fee , fiddle - fie , fiddle - foe , fiddle - fum
i smell the blood of an english
muffin , huffin and puffin
sellin his soul , j - e - l - l - o , ya know ?
roll with the squad who makes back flips stack
hits upon this so play at your own risk
tisk , tisk , tisk , ya shoulda used wisk
now you shouldn't appeal to be a biff
insist that your motor's on scramble
enter the beats and enter the sample
ample flow is created by the years and tears
of crews and blues , perched on the front stoop
checkin for the bass loop
so the troops roll out and the tows are paid , set and done
and here it comes...
i said here it comes !