cast away all of your rhymes into a shredder
got with my girl , the first day that i met her
tip - toe , tip - toe , try to step light
and if you say i can't well then i might , be
all i can be without the army or the navy
cause aiyyo aiyyo i'm not with the service
hurt us , no nada , nothin i'm too thick
called you jimmy cause you're actin like a prick
goody goody two - shoes , here comes the good news
serch went solo , so do me a favor would youse
come come come , and run out your drawers
can you dig it ? it just hit the stores
yeah , c'mon now.. come come now..
c'mon now.. can you dig it ?
uhh , c'mon now.. come come now..
c'mon now.. can you dig it ?
i come from no rock , so open up your lids
all up and down your spine i'll send the shivs
blblalbalbalbalrr ! it's gettin mighty nippy
nipsey russell i remember sellin jiffy
hit me two times ( *beat* ) then hit me two times more ( *beat beat* )
hey yo chill , what'dyou hit me for ?
oh yeah for the groove , but not the groovy train
i feel the vibes , but what does that pertain ?
it's how i rock the hoodies with the hoods but i never did no hoodin
and saw " gladiators " cause of my man , cuba gooding
jr. , sr. , mister mister big
shake a leg , break a leg but stay , hip to the jig
uhh , c'mon now.. come come now..
c'mon now.. can you dig it ?
uhh uhh , c'mon now.. come come now..
yeah , c'mon now.. can you dig it ?
i've seen times change , watchin the rhymes change
from good to bad to worse from worse to hearse
why is it the hearse makes all the papes ?
i know you're mad phony y'know like counterfeit tapes
hit one , strip one , rip one to the bad boy and ya find
there ain't nothin there no more
you're blowin smoke up , where there ain't no sunlight
and i don't need kfc to show me how it's done right
i rip mics i grab mics i wreck mics until i'm hoarse
and when i can't rhyme i'll go home and read the source
peace to the streets the thugs the vandals and the hoods
you dig it , you dig it , you dug it ? good
then c'mon now.. come come now..
you've got to c'mon now.. can you dig it ?
c'mon now.. come come now..
c'mon now uhh.. can you dig it ?
diggin the vibe cause the vibe is what i'm diggerin
triggerin samples bigger sounds serch must begin again
did what i had to dig , a tractor - trailer and a rig
cannot get this big ; your voice is foul - stop smokin cigs
and put your life back in order
met chantelle at taco bell and made a , run for the border
saw all the dust and ma and pa doowops is who i trust
and some old school kid tried to come back but his lyrics were all rust
and mustard ketchup , sauerkraut and relish
sell this crap i like to rap but hey yo that's my fetish
kick the smoooooth style - i hope that y'all can get it
and if you don't you dig it you got it come on and kick it
c'mon now.. come come now..
c'mon now.. can you dig it ?
c'mon now.. come come now..
c'mon now.. can you dig it ?
i'm hip to the dig , i'm hip to the dig
i'm hip to the dig , i'm hip to the dig
i'm hip to the dig , i'm hip to the dig
i'm hip to the dig..
dumb shout out to my man ken kesney on the 24