i just wanna know how niggas going to jail
telling on niggas , coming back home and it still being cool
i just wanna know how a nigga on instagram and twitter with fifty thousand followers
ain’t got no money in real life , but still popping , i just wanna know
i wanna know , if a nigga ain’t really putting it in , but acting like he putting it in
niggas still letting it fly like it’s cool , i really wanna know man
this shit getting different out here it’s getting spooky
now when that shit went down with chris , you wrote a check
in new orleans wore my chain to get respect ( you a fraud )
so what that tell me ? you a pussy and a fed
say the wrong shit you know the shooters at your neck
i just wanna know , if you ain’t write that running through the six shit
tell us who the fuck was quentin running through the six with ?
running through the six with my woes
counting money you know how it goes
all the real live forever baby
and the fake get exposed
niggas writing for you cause you know you never did shit
when i threw that hook out , i was tryin' to catch a big fish
we the type of niggas to tie your mother up
fuck your sister in the ass and hit your brother up , pussy
you really sweet , i call you buttercup
you fucking dork you changed the style because you studied us
coming with the same flow
switching up your lingo
we just want a refund , this ain’t what we paid for
every time that we come , we get what we came for
spitting another niggas shit , but you claim you king though ?
i just wanna know , i just wanna know
how these niggas acting like they trill but really fake
and people acting like it go
i just wanna know , i just wanna know
was it quentin miller ? was it hush or was it detail where you really got your flow ?
( milli vanilli ass nigga )
money make a fake ass nigga look real again
money make a sucker that told look trill again
says a lot about all the people that's feeling him
but i'ma show you bitch ass niggas what's real again
heard that other nigga talking we ain’t get back yet
let’s keep it short , nigga you ain’t get your chick back yet
and now she rocking with the chaser and now you missed that check
you went from clear port to boarding pass you miss that jet , hold up
cat , i got to take them off of here , that's right
i got to take them off of here , there’s only one
and that’s me , you understand ?
'fore all that fighting , you understand ?
sucka thinks he good
sucka thinks he can whoop me
and i know he can’t whoop me and i
hey boy , the nigga whole style is chump , you understand ?
when it comes to me you understand
let me get mines first
then after i get mine , y’all can do what you wanna do
you know you fucked up right ?
you shoulda just said nothing
now you're going to have to give me a check to stop
all i hear is platinum that platinum this
meanwhile i’m on the carpet with a platinum chick
i got a platinum rollie , platinum whip
niggas frauds i told the truth , don’t ask me shit
all this industry fake enemy and rap shit
it’s never really my style we got cash to get
i really started from nothing now it’s back to shit
puffy almost caught a domestic when he smacked that bitch
hold up , let that bitch breathe
yeah this is called poppin' shit
there’s no cut on it
there’s no cut on it
if your feelings get hurt
you feel like " oh , that’s an arrogant little comment... "
no this is the truth and the truth hurts
haven’t i paid my dues ?
haven't i weathered the storm ?
didn’t i weather the storm ?
niggas is gone and i'm here
you let tip homie piss on you in a movie theater nigga , we ain’t forget
real niggas back in style this shit is lit
this that ja rule shit and 50 cent