ain't this what they've been waitin' for ?
you ready ?
i used to pray for times like this , to rhyme like this
so i had to grind like that to shine like this
in a matter of time i spent on some locked up shit
in the back of the paddy wagon , cuffs locked on wrists
see my dreams unfold , nightmares come true
it was time to marry the game , and i said : " yeah , i do. "
if you want it you gotta see it with a clear - eyed view
got a shorty , she tryna bless me like i said achoo
like a nigga sneezed
nigga please , before them triggers squeeze
i'm gettin' cream , never let them hoes get in between
of what we started , lil' nigga but i'm lionhearted
they love me when i was stuck , and they hated when i departed
i go and get it regardless , draw it like i'm a artist
no crawlin' , went straight to walkin'
with foreigns in my garages , all foreign bitches ménagin'
fuckin' , suckin' , and swallowin' anything for a dollar
they tell me " get 'em ! " , i got 'em
i did it without an album
i did shit with mariah
lil' nigga , i'm on fire
icy as a hockey rink , philly nigga , i'm flyer
when i bought the rolls - royce they thought it was leased
then i bought that new ferrari – hater , rest in peace
hater , rest in peace , rest in peace to the parking lot
phantom so big it can't even fit in the parking spot
you ain't talkin' 'bout my niggas , then what you talkin' 'bout ?
gangstas move in silence , nigga , and i don't talk a lot
i don't say a word , i don't say a word
was on my grind and now i got what i deserve , fuck nigga !
hold up , wait a minute ! y'all thought i was finished ?
when i bought that aston martin , y'all thought it was rented ?
flexin' on these niggas : i'm like popeye on his spinach
double m , yeah , that's my team
rozay the captain , i'm the lieutenant
i’m the type to count a million cash , then grind like i’m broke
that lambo my new bitch , she don't ride like my ghost
i'm ridin' around my city with my hand strapped on my toast
‘cause these niggas want me dead , and i gotta make it back home
‘cause my momma need that bill money
and my son need some milk
these niggas tryna take my life , they fuck around and get killed
you fuck around , you fuck around
you fuck around and get smoked , ‘cause these philly niggas i brought with me don't fuck around , no joke , no
all i know is murder , when it come to me
i got young niggas that's rollin' , i got niggas throwin' b's
i done did the doa's , i done did the kod's
every time i'm in that bitch i get to throwin' 30 g's
but now i'm hangin' out that drop head , i'm ridin' down on collins
they let my nigga earn back home , that young nigga be wildin'
we young niggas and we mobbin'
like batman and we're robbin'
this two - door maybach , with my seat all reclinin'
i'm that real nigga , what up ? real nigga , what up ?
if you ain't about that murder game , then , pussy nigga , shut up !
if you diss me in your raps , i'll get yo' pussy - ass stuck up
when you touchdown in my hood ; no , that tour life ain't good
catch me down in mia , at that heat game on wood
with that puma life on my feet , like that little engine i could
boy , i slide down on your block , bike on twelve o'clock
and they be throwin' dueces on the same nigga they watch
and i'm the king of my city ‘cause i'm still callin' them shots
and these lames talkin' that bullshit the same niggas that flopped
i'm the same nigga from berks street
with them nappy braids , that lock
the same nigga that came up and i had to wait for my spot
and these niggas hatin' on me , hoes waitin' on me
still on that hood shit , my rolls - royce on e
they gon' remember me , i say remember me
so much money , have your friends turn into enemies
and when there’s beef i turn my enemies to memories
with them bricks they go from 40 , ain't no 10 a key
hold up ! broke nigga turned rich
love the game like mitch
and if i leave , you think them pretty hoes gon' still suck my dick ?
it was somethin' about that rollie when it first touched my wrist
had me feelin' like that dope boy when he first touched that brick
i'm gone