charissa thompsonthis is the first time you guys have been together on tv since the whole malice at the palace.
stephen jacksonit's been a long time.
ctwhat kind of effect do you think that had on your career ?
sjit had a huge , negative effect on my career for the simple fact that i was judged from that one incident. i wasn't judged as a player who's on a team with a guy who i consider my family. i'm with this guy more than i'm with my family during the course of the season , so any situation that he's involved in , it's my duty to be there as a teammate and as a brother. and a lot of people didn't look at it like that. they just looked at it as being thugs , fighting in the stands , and that was totally not it.
ctyou're nodding your head , metta.
metta world peacenah , he's right. stephen is one of the best teammates i've ever played with. anybody will tell you that. even the guys in san antonio when stephen left san antonio. all the guys talked about how great a teammate he is and how he has your back. and that situation , people forget the fact that he's a champion and he's a great teammate. you know , before anything.
ctlast question is along the same lines about the incident , comes from ryan brumley. he wants to know : stephen , what did ron artest say to you after that incident in the locker room ?
sjit was a funny moment. we was all excited , we all had adrenaline. what was crazy was i'm sitting there looking at my legs and i had all kinds of scratches on my legs and i don't feel a thing. i'm sitting back and looking at him and ronny said " yo , you think we gon' get in trouble ? "
yo , we was like " whoa " ... we ain't even gonna have a job , bro , not trouble !
mwpman. you said that , too.
sjyeah , that's what i said !
ctron really didn't think you were gonna get in trouble for that ?
mwpat the moment , i just thought that , you know , i didn't start this whole incident. i just - somebody threw something at me and i was pissed off. it's that simple. so i didn't think , at the time , that we would get in that much trouble. but then steve was like , " we're wrapped up. "
sjto defend him , we'd been around him the whole season so we'd seen ron do things that he shouldn't have done. this situation was a situation where ron was showing professionalism , showing he was trying to do the right thing , and he didn't get credit for it. and a lot of people didn't see how the game was refereed. i think the referees could have done a better job of getting everybody off the court and it wouldn't have escalated into going into the stands.
ctso when you think back , what's the one thing that stands out to you about that night ?
sjthe one thing that stands out about that night was we let the world know that we were on our way to winning a championship , and we ruined it by having a fight in the stands. it was definitely a chance for us to let the whole world know that this is the pacers' year to win a championship , and we made that statement. but we killed everything by being jerks and having that incident.