feel free to play along at home.
" i prayed the one night. i asked god , ‘is this what’s supposed to happen to me ? ’ he said , ‘yes , this is the point in your life where this is supposed to happen , ’ and i just moved on. "
reporter : “they determined that you were suffering from depression , low self - esteem , and that you had problems with anger management. how have you tried to address those problems ? ”
metta/tyson : “that’s all they said was wrong with me ? ”
" glen rice is a wonderful man. he’s a wonderful guy. but you want her to be with somebody like rodman getting up in there. pushing her guts up in the back of her head ! "
" i don't have no energy to go back and forth with words because there's just too many great things happening in new york city. i just want apple pie. i don't feel like talking. i want to go to whole foods and enjoy my whole foods. "
" i got a imam , i got a rabbi , i got a priest , i got a reverend — i got 'em all. but i don't want to be holier - than - thou. i want to help everybody and still get some ( sex ) . "
“these books ain’t window dressing. i think machiavelli’s the most sophisticated writer outside of shakespeare. way ahead of his time. such a manipulative person. everything he accomplished he did by kissin’ ass.”
“bed , bath. i don’t think they sell beds at bed bath and beyond. i don’t think so. am i right ? ”
“i’m gonna make sure you talk about me , and your grandkids and kids after that gonna know about me…your great grandkids will say 'wow , wasn’t that a bizarre individual ? ' "
" i wish that you guys had children so i could kick them in the fucking head or stomp on their testicles so you could feel my pain because that's the pain i have waking up every day. "
" well , i'm just happy that jesus christ , um , did not let me lose my teeth when i was 20 years old. cause i was wondering , like , 'what if you kept your baby teeth until the age of 18 or 20 , and then you lose 'em ? ' that would look pretty bad. so i just think he's really brilliant that you lose your teeth when you're a baby rather than you lose them when you're , like , 30 or 20. that has nothing to do with your question , but that was definitely on my mind. "
" i’m a dreamer. i have to dream and reach for the stars , and if i miss a star then i grab a handful of clouds. "
" i’m a trash talker when i’m bored. i’m a trash talker when i’m down. i’m not a trash talker when i’m
up. most people trash talk when they’re up. i’d rather talk trash when i’m down. i’d rather talk trash when nothing’s going in my favor. i don’t like to be a front runner. "
" if i was president of the united states … i would have probably my own sports bar. "
“everyone says ‘i wish i was in your shoes…’ , the hundreds of people that wish they were in my shoes don’t know the tenth of it. if they were in my shoes they would cry like a baby.”
" i just think i do things that people want to do. i don’t have a shell. and i don’t have a filter. some people do... it’s fun being free , and not letting somebody else tell you that you’re not allowed to be free , ’cause it’s not true. it’s an unwritten rule that says you’re not allowed to be free — but that’s not true. "
" i’m on the zoloft to keep me from killing y’all. "
" new york city - - they rush everything. people rush everything. people rush sex. take your time. what's your rush ? where you going after ? tell me where you're going. relax , take your time , enjoy love. "
when asked which 3 people he would most want as dinner guests , " celine dion. dennis rodman. mike tyson. "
" i don't know , man , i guess i'm gonna fade into bolivian. "