i used to do old miss mary's niece
flood the virgin mary piece
sixth floor shit , niggas snort shit
my money caused shit
horse dick , curl your toes like a corn chip
mama's fried chicken , it glisten
i never once in life touched a chitterling
the dream that came to fruition up in the kitchen
hot air - conditioning , one hand niggas water whipping
my dress code is the coldest
stretch your colon
the beethoven , paper folding , the latest clothing
a player's chosen , playing oceans , no frank ocean
sterling chapel with the strap on it
looking like dyke pussy with the strap on it
the dope is pure , i could tap on it
my line , feds got the tap on it
range rover , i'm a slave owner
8 coronas on drink coasters , snake poachers
gator coats and suede loafers , break your focus
jealous haters break my naked sculptures
on the road to riches , trying to fuck all these bitches , trying to fuck all these bitches
on the road to riches , on the road to riches , trying fuck all these bitches
crash the lex like the bonus round
and my hair stay perfect
my son's chest frozen like some sherbet
my mother's name engraved on the burner
daddy didn't believe i was an earner
till i showed up in the lamb with the safari window
i been the shit , you motherfuckers hardly been dope
me and money go together like bacardi and coke
drive on the right side , numb like a stroke
as the sun hit my features , my dun hide the gun in the pizza
catch him while he playing fifa
mix the chemicals in beakers with new sneakers
deuce eaters at the theater
my mind been clearer since i'm drinking juice
shit it's summertime , i think i'll paint the lincoln blue
i know you never thought i'd make it through
dutty wining on my jamaican boo
wray & nephew for the whole crew
on the road to riches , trying to fuck all these bitches , trying to fuck all these bitches
on the road to riches , on the road to riches , trying fuck all these bitches
yeah nigga i'm l
bought your bitch a wax , then i took a trip to brazil
hold the gun right , keep an extra clip to refill
crossing over on pollock like we whipping the pill
gotta shake em like shammgod , working my hand god
straight fish , barely eat food of the land god
new york built me , not guilty
still swerving , eating poached , ham and gruyère
one love to my nigga pierre
doggy we here
get top from a thot , let a shot in the air
zip up , grip up , hit a spot then appear
been accused and we not in the clear
we crime niggas , tec - 9 niggas , write fly rhyme niggas
vvs won't peep the way my shine glitters
whole squad tatted up like yakuza
we ain't worried about getting jobs you fucking loser
shout out to the dealer , one love to the user
got workers on the strip , lord , peace to my staff
trying to climb different levels of math , i'm trying to stash
on the road to riches , trying to fuck all these bitches. i'm trying to fuck all these bitches. uh
yeah ma , allow me to show you myself. i want to take you out a night on the town. pull up in some fly shit. my drivers name is javier. take you on a horse carriage ride down grand concourse. that's the night i fell in love with you. that's the same night i stole money out your purse. i mean , i'm not here to impress nobody but myself. big fucking body , yeah. all types of shit. catch me rolling down lenox , i got rims on a fiend. what's up ? i'm a man of many mistakes , thousand - dollar sex moves. you should've been known me bitch