body out of order
alcohol flowing , not a lot of water
manslaughter with the magic marker
in the lobby of madison square garden , i loiter
the knicks just got kenny walker
bernard king is the best scorer
still a sketch drawer , had a fresh aura
sorta
married to my art , but my style just altered
ya see , ya see i'm sloppy 'round borders
my man told me about chalk he had imported
the rumor 'round town is he snorted
he said he was drawing , oh that's what you call it ? heh...
nose candy , made his whole soul happy
in cold alley's in the gutter like a bowling alley
i caught a strike when he tried to throw it at me
ironically i took a hit like a soldier rally
yea
white lines is a vacation
i seen keith haring use it in the train station
uh
he drew it out like he was play making
it was cleaner than spray painting
i had a new safe haven
took me a while , but i became patient
like an aids patient , that's waiting up for a grave placement
my whole style shifted , lifted , hit it and got addicted from the moment i sniffed it
i got cocaine , running around my brain
i got cocaine , running around my brain
using chalk in paradise garage
a bar on the lower east side that show art
and whenever the stars come through they bogard
we treat madonna like mozart , oh god
we got so large , tony schafrazi is digging the whole spark it was a cold start
bags of teacher material was imperial
got us all high we were aerial
girls still dig it no burial
rolled a hundred dollar bill
ben frank got stoned with me , what a higher thrill
writing skills got sharp like a lions grill , i got a fire feel
these other guys are fire drills , false alarms with minor appeal
acquired a deal to sculpt got hired for steel
admire the will , daily rush of the fairy dust
got my face flush , what a scary touch serious
fab 5 freddy , had to get me from the telly
i was passed out all over the floor like confetti
parade got rained on
no umbrella for that brainstorm
piece of white got my brain worn
a work of art with my frame torn
sick as a bat but i'm bruce wayne calm , with a cape on
hospital bed , i.v. in my vein long
can't wait until this pain gone...
chalk
all i want is your understanding , as in the small like of affection
the official toxicity limit for humans is between 1 and 1 1/2 grams of cocaine depending on body weight. i was averaging 5 grams a day maybe more. i snorted 10 grams in 10 minutes once. i guess i had a high tolerance
wake up , wake up , wake up. don't wake up , wake up , wake up , wake up. wake up , wake up , wake up
early morning flight
got the red eye
looking like a jedi
light saber
life saver
body not in ny
flight taker
ice breaker
rambling am i ?
disoriented...
in & outta conscious , dealing with the nonsense
no longer pompous
obnoxious , rambunctious
the socialites at my bedside , prayers up above
unicorns are flying , maybe its the drugs
crush on my nurse , lady in her scrubs
they say i got a buzz... whaaaat ?
dedicated wall with my picture on it
inebriated floors full of liquor on it
i ain't dead yet
i rsvp'd for the pearly gates , haven't got in yet
neighbor in the next bed , lost his left leg
on his deathbed , he was a meth head
chalk put me in a yolk like fresh eggs
i hope for the best meds
drawing question marks in jet red
jet blue
jet black
memory lost track
i lost track
call back
jupiter is hotter in the winter
when the birds gotta swim across the river to get dinner
lost a lotta weight , i'm feeling thinner
h20 in my ex eyes , i forgive her
i've seen better days
if i past , after i die , sellebrate