question !
move for me
i move for you
move for me
i move for you
i'm just taking pictures of girls naked
i'm just taking pictures of girls naked
i'm just taking pictures of girls naked
i'm just taking pictures of girls naked
it's nice to meet you darling , she said hello to me
she was a pretty young thang , but she was grown to me
i asked for red wine , she had alcohol for me
put on a show for me , then get exposed for me
her hands were on herself , but she had a hold on me
i picked my camera up and told her ass to pose for me
take photo's for me , take off them clothes for me
put on this robe for me , real slow for me
got anita baker on , watching as you dancing
i'm looking at through a lens , see that photo flashing ?
let you turn around , pull it off your shoulder
got your bra & thong on , see my minolta
spy on what your hands do , see your hands move
down to where your pants used to be , i need a chance to
check you in your glory , make this photo glossy
look right in this camera and take it off for me
all off...
right strap fall
left strap fall
right strap off
left strap off
i see your bra , now i see it gone
don't know your cup size , but i wanna drink it all
breast out , black thong , too fresh , silk baby
lately , i'm like hugh heff with this film baby
shutter click , what a trip , this is fucking sick
i'm taking flicks of a naughty chick , that's sexy and really love to strip
your thong is sitting on ya hips , let your thumb stretch it out
stay right there , hold up , don't move , check you out !
polaroid , lemme air the picture out
put your frame , up in a frame then get it framed for my house
this is art , as i capture you all in the nude
this a photoshoot interview for my visions view
thank you baby , i love the way you move
& next time you come through , you gotta bring your crew...
naked !
oh this is perfect , this is perfect. ho - hold it right there. right there , yes , yes yes. arch , arch ya back just a little bit. right there , yes yes. hold. yes. just like that. don't move. perfect !