that was cute man , that was real cute
now you about to get some competiton
cause i dont know if anyone else is gonna say anything
so we about to get into this
we about to bring this all the way back to the bronx , know what i mean
s'mickey - black apple , bitch
xmj , peace to lord gfc
yeah , i'm ready
where i've been at , what i'm up to
nobody cares so my response is fuck you
black apple patron in the city y'all black foes
throw my hues like langston
i dont know what you thinkin
so kendrick wanna play this game ? cool , i got you
game point and i spot you
shoot over you then i watch you
look over to see the ball go through the net when i washed you
you knew who to name in that song and who not to
from the bottomless pit , out comes the pit
treatin kenny like bane after he blew gotham to bits
gotta be mick , got the slick tho
this is what you wanted nigga ?
competition from a killer that's a tundra spitter - cold
i wonder what your steez did your sunny iller bars
black out eyes just like your album cover , nigga
you the king of new york ? beg your pardon
the king of la is dead and that nigga from harlem ( 2pac )
don't be like ja rule mimicking him
or we gonna sell you drunk outta that pool of liquor again
who bishop against ? none of y'all
you avoid juice
fake omar epps , just be a schoolxboy , q
gonna prove factz wrong , talk over that shit
you set the bar high , nigga , i vault over that shit
hollywood star , nigga , i walk over that shit
you say you sick ? i cough over that shit
who want this ?
i'm targeting you , calling your crew
who see the soul of ab fly if he sparring with you
homie it's true
but you know what ? i ain't gonna namedrop y'all to death
cause hova's team is the only jay rock we respect
new york , no beef , just lyrical warfare
i heard the record sat in my lawnchair like aw yeah
i'm at the window like malcolm looking at y'all scared
you at your internet window , you saying i'm soft , where ? ( where ? )
you love my city , keep it accurate , dawg
stole loso's haircut and think you got fabulous bars ?
oh yeah , you used to copy charles hamilton , dawg
a good kid turned the mad city after him y'all
plus the girl you was rumored with is outta new york
i guarantee his lady go gaga over this song
i aim for the soul with them bars , i won't spare it
i'm just concerned with the haters who hate after they hear us
so if black hippy step they gonna die off , bless
vampire with the bars , i'mma find y'all next
killing everybody , you can cosign those bets
you shot and got a quick return like the irs ( pow ! )
better than you , said it back in twenty ten though
polic with the penstroke , call up all your kinfolk
mighty with the sword , ninja gaiden
it's shockin how i held back and came at 'em full force
remember raiden ( yeah )
let's bet on the next threat , new cess next
you struggle with the bars over your head like a benchpress
telling you right now , don't talk around me
cause out west you couldn't picture getting hit like a papparazzi
black apple , i'm ready to set it off
coming for the bank , who ready to play the god ?
while i'm busting open doors everybody on the floor
put the money in the bags , don't ring any alarms
i'm taking over the town , ben affleck on the song
ain't no king of new york , biggie gone , christopher wallace
put it on the blogs for the frauds , make a response
i'll be here with the rest of my city holding the fort
reality gonna show him that i'm raw
but can he get cancelled with his bitch ? that's khloe and lamar
let's have it , lets have some fun , you know
you wanted to have some fun ? well , let's do that then
you know , make sure y'all ready
cause clearly we're ready over here
you know
nah , fuck , i got another verse
i bet the funeral home got a stash , reverend got another church
two arts and mouse
i'd rather battle picasso and dali in the gardens of garvey
shadowbox with ali , postin up barkley
hypnotize...