hey keith can you pass me a light ? yea , i wanna light this cigarette up. thanks bro. ya know , i was never the best. i never sat down and said , " i wanna be the best. "
i knew i had talent. like i knew i could draw. i knew i could , make work come to
life on the wall. i knew i was creative. but my overall goal , wasn't to be the
best. i just wanted respect from my peers. a uh , a sense of admiration from
people who'd see my work. i was privileged to grow up at a time where art was
art , to us. it didn't belong to the rich. the pretentious. the snobs. it
belonged to us. we set the tone for what people wanted and needed to see...
see… i - i remember seeing the child like crown by jean - michel. seeing that crown , seeing samo and saying , that’s art. i remember seeing the illuminating baby , by keith. the colorfulness of kenny. the stick man by stay - high. we were all there. even the question mark by me. it meant something. we stood for something
lemme tell you a story , like last time i got arrested right ? i was tagging a police car. i never did these things out of spite or out of anger. but more out of , desperation. i was disgusted at what this city was becoming. i wrote : " are you really policing ? " haha. i thought that was clever. i thought that was really clever
new york city is the capital of the world. but right now , i feel some sort of way. we're deteriorating. you got this fucking crack shit everywhere. prostitution running rampant. women getting raped in central park. shit , i'm scared to have sex. yea... like what what... what kinda man , is scared
to have sex ? its 1987 and all... all of my friends are dying from sex. and we don't know why. where are our guardians ? like this shit is crazy. like i don't... i don't get it... sigh... fuck you , ed koch. fuck you ! and i hope you die from whatever disease is killing all my friends
this shit is fucked up ! !
sorry where was i ?
sigh... i stay on bowery now. i've done enough work to where people want my expression. my , my work. my truths. i'm flattered really. last week ha , i was in katz delicatessen and tony schafrazi stopped by. he was a curator for art for keith haring for a long time. he would throw these um.. these galleries for him. and uh , robert would come through. roy litchenstein would be there. and i would always see him but i would never say anything. so now i see him here and the whole time i was trying to figure out what to say to him and he comes up to me and he says " hey question mark man , riddle me this... i have a little house , in which i live all alone. it has no doors. or windows. and if i wanna go out , i must break thru the wall. what am i ? " ha , and i sat there and i thought for 2 minutes and i said... “your a baby chicken... right ? ” and he says “no , its you.” heh...
i'm rambling and the point is this , everyone can't be the best. challenge yourself to defeat yourself. that way , competition will stare at you fighting , instead of paying attention to what they're doing. and then , everybody will look at you and see your true potential. you'll then be the best , without trying to be the best
mause
mauuuuuse !
the big apple
a.k.a. the black apple
call it nightmare capitol
dodging all of these tackles
uh , ya see i'm shackled
hard for me not to grapple
i gotta can of that magic , while hanging off a scaffold
flashlight on me
working in the train tunnels
watching out for that 3rd rail
please pray for me uncle !
on my way up to harlem
140th , adam clayton
went to see rich porter
he copped about 7 paintings !
ayyyy !
mama i made it , even though you told me i'm brainless
right when i met cindy crawford
she begged me paint on her naked
got jackets that i created
gave one to futura
told me whenever he wore it
it kinda gave him an aura
all the , all the , all the shorty's
that saw me in all the parties
bugging out with my sharpie
they all asking to call me
so i invited them over
we all can play my atari
i can be your black ken doll
and you can be my new barbie