*tape deck opens*
*tape deck closes*
*play button is pressed*
mickey mause : interview with andy warhol... june 11th , 1986. andy , first & foremost i want to take the time to say thank you , for conducting this interview with me. so the 1st question i have is if you could paint anybody in the world , who would it be ?
andy warhol : i'd paint anybody , anybody that asked me
mause : really ? wow , even a random guy just walking down 5th avenue , who came up to you , you just would paint them ?
warhol : uh , yes. mhmm
mause : right right well , how i mean how long does it... you know like...
warhol : well , by doing you know by spending more time on it. its just.. its just like a person who spends more time on one picture
mause : ooh ok...
warhol : i just spend more time doing more than one picture
mause : ok well let's switch gears. what kind of camera do you use ?
warhol : i've got this um... mr. landon invented this great camera that was called uh a polaroid , it was called a poto roid um big shot
mause : polar.. a polaroid.. yea
warhol : and uh it just takes uh the face of the person , i..i.. haven't learned how to do the body yet. i mean i..i... i've done it before but not..not really and so this.. this picture just takes a picture of um... just the face and it seems to uh.. i don't know , there's something about the camera that makes it lo.. makes the person look uh... just right.. and uh it takes... it just takes... takes their head shots its..its like getting a passport picture...
mause : yea
warhol : they usually always come out great
mause : yea well i've actually been using a portable polaroid as of late to take pictures of girls naked. it um definitely focuses on the body more. ha ha... which is good. i try to get at least 20 to 25 shots because the film is extremely expensive. how many shots do you take by the way ?
warhol : no , i take i take at least 200
mause : wow
warhol : maybe more
mause : wow 200 shots ?
warhol : then i , yea , then i pick and sometimes i... i um.. you know take a half a picture from one picture and another picture lifted from another picture
mause : insane... and these.. and these are all black & white i presume ?
warhol : it..its usually a color picture and i turn it to a black and white um.. photograph
mause : let's talk about your work now. when you first started , people felt you weren't that good. they weren't into the pop art. now everyone has your work in their museums. do you like your work up now ? like.. do you like to see it out like that ?
warhol : umm , oh no , i like them in closets
mause : whaa... ha ha ha... what ? why ?
warhol : oh well... because people collect them and then they put em away they don't have to put them up on the wall... at least they have them
mause : he he heeeee. wow. well what do you suggest is the best way to get ideas for me ? i'm young , i'm starting out , i like to have naked girls around when i...when i paint. so wha..what do you suggest ?
warhol : well , no you can listen to really good music
mause : oh really ? well i - i used to have a boom box when i spray painted in the bronx listening to curtis blow...
warhol : oh yea...
mause : & krs - 1. so... but..but.. i heard you were an opera fan
warhol : oh i always liked opera. i used to go when i was i very young...
mause : ok...
warhol : and now when you , you know with this great its a.. i think its another sony ma - machine... its a.. its... its called a walk - a - bout or a walk - a - man
mause : a.. a...a walk - man... yea walk - man
warhol : or something like that and uh.. its.. its.. actually really terrific... & you can.. you can hear it as stereo in your ear and its.. its its... its really great
mause : oh.. well... who did enjoy painting the most ? marilyn monroe ? jfk ? madonna ?
warhol : i think li - liza min - minelli
mause : what ? you gotta be kidding me... liza minelli ? of all people ?
warhol : well umm.. because i was able to sort of uh
mause : yea , explain. you gotta explain
warhol : do her... and do the painting like the way i used to do them years ago. and... and i i just did them recently. and uh it um.. it had the right look and the right colors
mause : oh ok... i see.. well she's kind of a bitch to me man but eh whatever , i don't...i don't really care
warhol : yes... i can... well..
mause : ha ha ha
warhol : uh she's a great person...
mause : ight , whatever you say man. well , i sent some artwork over to edie for you to look at did you get them ? do u like them ?
warhol : well no i don't. but uh
mause : what ?
warhol : i have them... i wish i... i wish i didn't
mause : what ? .. fuck u andy. you don't think it would be a good idea to at least look at the art ?
warhol : uh... it would be a good idea... yea...
mause : you're a jerk man. you gotta look at what the youth is doing andy. so you can stay and remain young man
warhol : oh no.. i'm.. no i'm...i'm...i'm old
mause : oh.. oh you're old now ? ha ha... come on man...
warhol : oh yes , i'm old , yea... they call me granny
mause : what ?
warhol : they call me granny. they do
mause : who at the factory is calling you granny ? is it keith ? is it kenny ?
warhol : uh everybody does
mause : wow. really ? but why do you think they do ? cause i'm a start soon
warhol : uh i don't know... they.. they say i'm old
mause : ha ha... it could be because we love you man... ha ha
warhol : uh no , its not a sign of affection
mause : what ?
warhol : it's mean
mause : no man... you must hate us man..
warhol : uh... well no , i like everybody... so... that's affection
mause : ha ha.. so you trying to tell me , after the years you've known me , there's nothing about me or anybody else that you hate ?
warhol : ummmm.. well if they talk a lot
mause : ha ha... come on andy...
warhol : *chuckles*
mause : so if i shut up and end this interview , i'd be cool to you ?
warhol : ye... yes... that's a really nice person
mause : ok fine... i'll get you later man... mause
*tape stops*
*film reel starts*
mause : lights , camera , action !
mause ! ! ! !
young , black , gifted , talented , i don't even try
just started using camera's , i won't even lie , i...
got girls naked taking pictures , am i dreaming ! nah
i think i got a genius eye , love how she look when she got no bra
i , i'm i'm turning heads critics look at me different
my life on the edge , painting women the illest
black , white , yellow , red , hopefully y'all can get it
skill with a little bit of feel , make em feel a little thrill , now they all wanna chill
when i'm in it , in it
5'9 " mouse ears visually mesmerized
mask down , all black i'm unidentified
new balance or the jordan's , i never can decide
i'm not a trendy guy but i was fly before 25
my art got em in a fairy tale trance
and with this aerosol can , i'm like a marathon man
and if you never saw my face , then you never had a chance , so !
wonder what it look like , look at me ! hey !