yeah.... yeah..... yeah
tell me.... the price
tell me... the price ( yeah , yeah )
tell me the price ( yeah )
tell me the price ( yeah , yeah )
no surprise
what's the price ? ( prices , prices , going up )
woo ! ( prices , prices , price )
the bitch bad , i slide ( prices , price is , going up )
hold on , yeah ( prices , prices , price )
what's the price ? ( what's the price ? prices going up , prices )
hold on ( price , going up yeah )
the bitch bad , i slide , skrrt skrrt , skrrt skrrt ( going up )
hold on ( woo woo woo , price )
bad mona lisa , slide with my people
pink slip for the ride , but what's in the trunk , it's illegal
came from dimes , no cosigns
you can read between the lines
like a pro skater , did my own grinds
tell me what the preacher preach about ( preacher )
tell me what the teacher teach about ( teacher )
i'ma go find me a better route
that bullshit and cap , you can leave it out ( cap )
they talking but ain't tryna hear me out
won't open the door , tryna leave me out ( open )
i'ma pull up and just empty out ( brrr )
come through , just make sure you clear me out ( brrr )
ooh
clear me out , clear me out
just clear me out , clear me out
what's the price ? ( prices , prices , going up )
woo ! ( prices , prices , price )
the bitch bad , i slide ( prices , prices , going up )
hold on , yeah ( prices , prices , price )
what's the price ? ( what's the price ? price is going up , prices )
hold on ( price , going up yeah )
the bitch bad , i slide , skrrt skrrt , skrrt skrrt ( going up )
hold on ( woo woo woo , price )
shit goin' up , you know what i mean ? offset !
i do not care what the tag will say ( i don't )
i done brought out a big bag today ( bag )
i just pulled up with the mac today ( brrr )
i don't plan on going out sad today ( brrr )
pay what you owe , eighty a show ( eighty )
close the curtain and smoke in the ghost ( gas )
hop in the i8 and lift up the door ( skrrt )
young rich nigga , more money than the old ( hey )
got your hoe at the condo , no clothes , yeah
climb on a young nigga pole , yeah
you don't wanna go there ( nah )
sticks and the dracos in here ( brrr )
got racks in the back of my pants ( racks )
got racks in the bachelor pad ( racks )
these bitches , they fuck for a bag ( smash )
and you niggas gon' go out sad
bad mona lisa ( bad )
slide with my people ( skrrt skrrt )
pink slip for the ride ( skrrt skrrt )
but what's in the trunk , it's illegal
came from dimes ( dimes ) , no cosigns ( no cosigns )
you can read between the lines
like a pro skater , did my own grinds , yeah ( grinds )
what's the price ? ( what's the price ? price is going up , prices )
hold on ( price , going up yeah )
the bitch bad , i slide , skrrt skrrt , skrrt skrrt ( going up )
hold on ( woo woo woo , price , yeah ! )