unleash my dragon
you about to have your ears bleed like a magnet
you about to turn into a silly little rabbit
coz nigga , i'm the shit , and you're just my maggots
i'm pretty sure you never met a beast so vicious
i taste my own flows on this beat , hmm delicious
i pull my dick out , skeet skeet , so nutritious
since you let me out the bottle , close your eyes , i'll give you wishes
fee - fi - fo - fum , here comes the giant
i roar like a lion , disturbed and defiant
i got the whole hood sucking my titties
i turn these suckers into my slaves and suck 'em so pretty
i wouldn't try and do the things that i do
you should pray to god and do not play with false idols
you should leave the room before there's blood on the tiles
before there's blood on my teeth with the cannibal smile
who's geeking ? who's gagging ? who's mad coz i'm winning ?
who's mad coz i'm sinning and i'm still forgiven ?
shucks !
i'm a twisted fuck
y'all out of luck
mykki blanco two thumbs up , i got the midas touch
where my prada pumps ?
come get pumped
when we drinking jack and coke
where's the coke ? who's doing bumps with me ?
trilly , honey - bunnies getting gully in the back room
black & mild wine tips
nigga if you lost my weed , you better go and find it
you'd think i was a mink the way these dogs are sniffing
you'd think my name was homer simpson to these peter griffins
they're hanging off my every word
damn these fuckers - angry birds !
squawk squawk ! it's that big talk , you fucking herb
i like my hair bone - straight - chinese
i know you wish you could have two of me - siamese
i don't remember telling you to talk - hush , please
put the dick in slower baby asking me to rush , please
girls in my position
learn from intuition
complex occupations lead to certain situations
" mykki , we got some issues "
nah , bitch , i got some problems
you suck a dick like dilbert , i calvin & hobbes 'em
you unleash the boogeyman , the bitch is wearing prada
and you ain't getting nada , this chick is making dollars
mykki gon' make you holler a little at a time
rising fast to the top like raegan era crime
like raegan era crime , a product of genocide
infiltrate the streets , get you hooked to my thighs
mykki blanco everywhere , blanco season in the air
you so hooked on me , i caught you smoking my pussy hair
nothing to lose , everything to gain
i roll with the tides , i learned to play the game
it's all about the fame , it's all about the change
if you think mykki's a dummy , nigga you was just deranged
if this the big picture , you better cast me in it
mykki blanco get so much shine , you'd think she was a sequin
bamm - bamm ! betty rubble. bam ! bam !
bamm - bamm ! betty rubble. bam ! bam !
yeah