aight , fuck that shit ! word , word
fuck that other shit , y'know what i'm sayin' ?
we gonna do a lil somethin' like this
y'know what i'm sayin' ?
( y'all doing that other shit )
keep it on and on and on and on and
know'm sayin' ? big nas , grand wizard , what is it ?
( it's like… ) haha ,  you know what i'm sayin' ?
yo , go ahead and rip that shit , dun !
i rap for listeners , bluntheads , fly ladies , and prisoners
henessey - holders and old - school niggas , then i be dissin' a
unofficial that smoke woolie thai
i dropped out of cooley high
gassed up by a cokehead cutie pie
jungle survivor , fuck who's the live - er
my man put the battery in my back , a difference from energizer
sentence begins indented with formality
my duration's infinite , moneywise or physiology
poetry , that's a part of me , retardedly bop
i drop the ancient manifested hip - hop straight off the block
i reminisce on park jams , my man was shot for his sheep coat
childhood lesson make me see him drop in my weed smoke
it's real , grew up in trife life , did times or white lines
the hype pipes , murderous nighttimes
and knife fights and blight crimes
chill on the block with cognac , hold strap
with my peeps that's into drug money market interact
no sign of the beast in the blue chrysler
i guess that means peace
for niggas , no sheisty vice to just snipe ya
start off the dice - rollin' mats for craps to cee - lo
with side - bets , i roll a deuce , nothin' below
( peace god ! ) peace god – now the shit is explained
i'm takin' niggas on a trip straight through memory lane
it's like that , y'all…
" now let me take a trip down memory lane "
" comin' outta queensbridge "
one for the money , two for pussy and foreign cars
three for alizé , niggas deceased or behind bars
i rap divine , god , check the prognosis : is it real or showbiz ?
my window faces shootouts , drug overdoses
live amongst no roses , only the drama
for real , a nickel - plate is my fate , my medicine is the ganja
here's my basis , my razor embraces , many faces
you're telephone blown , black , stitches or fat shoelaces
peoples are petro , dramatic automatic .44 i let blow
and back down po - po when i'm vexed so
my pen taps the paper , then my brain's blank
i see dark streets , hustlin' brothers who keep the same rank
pumpin' for somethin' , some'll prosper , some fail
judges hangin' niggas , uncorrect bails for direct sales
my intellect prevails from a hangin' cross with nails
i reinforce the frail , with lyrics that's real
word to christ , a disciple of streets , trifle on beats
i decipher prophecies through a mic and say " peace "
i hung around the older crews
while they sling smack to dingbats
they spoke of fat cat ; that nigga's name made bell rings , black
some fiends scream about supreme team , a jamaica queens thing
uptown was alpo , son , heard he was kingpin
yo , fuck " rap is real , " watch the herbs stand still
never talkin' to snakes , ‘cause the words of man kill
true in the game , as long as blood is blue in my veins
i pour my heineken brew to my deceased crew on memory lane
" now let me take a trip down memory lane "
" comin' outta queensbridge "
" now let me take a trip down memory lane "
" comin' outta queensbridge "
" comin' out of queensbridge " ( x4 )
" the most dangerous mc is… "
" comin' out of queensbridge "
" the most dangerous mc is… "
" comin' out of queensbridge "
" the most dangerous mc is… "
" comin' out of queensbridge "
" the most dangerous mc is… "
" me number one , and you know where me from "