i guess you knew and blew a good thing , baby
bye , baby , i guess you knew why i walked away
when we walked to the altar , that was an awesome day
did counseling , couldn't force me to stay
something happens when you say i do , we go astray
why did we mess it up ? we was friends , we had it all
reason you don't trust men , that was your daddy fault
he in the grave – let it go , he no longer livin'
said you caught him cheating with mom , fucking other women
fuck that gotta do with us ?
here's the keys to the newest truck
birkin bags , we burnin' cash , now baby , do it up
no matter who you fuck , that was before me
wanted you as my shorty since before i saw you screamin'
hate you so much right now , should've saw the meaning
angry black woman , actions of a demon , i'm leavin'
i guess you knew and blew a good thing , baby
you know i'm saying bye - bye
‘cause i'm saying bye - bye
bye , baby , i guess you know why i had to leave
seven months in your pregnancy , 'bout to have my seed
let's take it back some years , rewind it to the happy years
you and your star trak fam , i'm thinking you cats are weird
same time , different year , i was digging y'all flow
then i tatted you on my arm so niggas would know
i thought no one could stop us , matching gold watches
i was your johnny depp , you was my janis joplin
yet the cuter version , yet i knew you personally
better than you knew yourself – and i knew this for certain
crib in the dominican , you got away from everybody
you screaming at the racist cops in miami was probably
the highlight of my life , like " ha ! yo , look at my wife ! "
gangsta , me and 20 cops 'bout to fight
crazy night , bailed you out , next morning we got clean
like it never happened , and later we at that heat game
just another day in the life of two people in love
but it wasn't enough , so baby , guess what
listen , could you imagine writing your deposition
divorce lawyer telling you how this thing gonna be endin' ?
with you paying out the ass and i’m talking half
not some , but half , no , serious , half
half of your soul , half of your heart , you leaving behind
it’s either that or die , i wanted peace of mind
and all i seen was selfish cowards
under their breath , saying , " why did nas trust her ? "
but look at yourself ! speak louder , bruh !
you live with your baby moms
and scared to make an honest woman out of her
and make her your bride , fake pimps , you ain’t even alive
at least i can say i tried plus enjoyed the ride
plus we got our little boy , my little joy and pride
he got my nose , my grill , your color , your eyes
next go round i hope i pick the truest type
and watch me do it all again – it’s a beautiful life , aight ?
goodbye !