fuck jay z !
( what's up , niggas ?
ayo , i know you ain't talking 'bout me , dog
you ? what ? ! )
fuck jay z !
( you been on my dick , nigga
you love my style , nigga )
fuck jay z !
( i ) fuck with your soul like ether
( will ) teach you – the king – you know you
( not ) god's son across the belly
( lose ) i prove you lost already
brace yourself for the main event , y'all impatiently waiting
it's like an aids test ; what's the results ? not positive
who's the best : pac , nas and b.i.g. ? ain't no best
east , west , north , south , flossed out , greedy
i embrace y'all with napalm
blows up , no guts left , chest/face gone
how could nas be garbage ? semi - autos at your cartilage
burner at the side of your dome , come out of my throne !
i got this locked since 9 - 1 ; i am the truest
name a rapper that i ain't influenced
gave y'all chapters , but now i keep my eyes on the judas
with hawaiian sophie fame , kept my name in his music
( i ) fuck with your soul like ether
( will ) teach you – the king – you know you
( not ) god's son across the belly
( lose ) i prove you lost already
ayo , pass me the weed !
put my ashes out on these niggas , man
ayo , you faggots , y'all kneel
and kiss the mothafuckin' ring !
( i ) fuck with your soul like ether
( will ) teach you – the king – you know you
( not ) god's son across the belly
( lose ) i prove you lost already
i've been fucked over , left for dead , dissed and forgotten
luck ran out , they hoped that i'd be gone , stiff and rotten
y'all just piss on me , shit on me , spit on my grave
talk about me , laugh behind my back , but in my face
y'all some well wishers , friendly acting , envy hiding snakes
with your hands out for my money
man , how much can i take ?
when these streets keep calling , heard it when i was sleep
that this gay - z and cock - a - fella records wanted beef
started cocking up my weapon , slowly loading up this ammo
to explode it on a camel and his soldiers
i can handle this for dolo , and his manuscript just sound stupid
when krs already made an album called blueprint ( dick ! )
first biggie's your man , then you got the nerve to say
that you better than b.i.g
dick - sucking lips , why don't you let the late great veteran live ?
i... will... not... lose
god's son across the belly
i prove you lost already
the king is back , where my crown at ?
ill will , rest in peace !
let's do it , niggas !
( i ) fuck with your soul like ether
( will ) teach you – the king – you know you
( not ) god's son across the belly
( lose ) i prove you lost already
y'all niggas deal with emotions like bitches
what's sad is i love you , ‘cause you're my brother
you traded your soul for riches
my child , i've watched you grow up to be famous
and now i smile like a proud dad
watching his only son that made it
you seem to be only concerned with dissin' women
were you abused as a child ?
scared to smile ? they called you ugly ?
well , life is harsh ; hug me ! don't reject me !
or make records to disrespect me , blatant or indirectly
in '88 you was getting chased through your building
callin' my crib and i ain't even give you my numbers
all i did was give you a style for you to run with
smiling in my face , glad to break bread with the god
wearing jaz' chains , no tec's , no cash , no cars
no jail bars , jigga , no pies , no case
just hawaiian shirts , hanging with little chase
you a fan , a phony , a fake , a pussy , a stan
i still whip your ass ; you 36 in a karate class ?
you tae - bo ho , tryna work it out , you tryna get brolic ?
ask me if i'm tryna kick knowledge ?
nah , i'm tryna kick the shit you need to learn though
that ether , that shit that make your soul burn slow
is he dame diddy , dame daddy or dame dummy ?
oh , i get it , you biggie and he's puffy
rocafella died of aids , that was the end of his chapter
and that's the guy y'all chose to name your company after ?
put it together : i rock hoes , y'all rock fellas
and now y'all try to take my spot , fellas
feel these hot rocks , fellas , put you in a dry spot , fellas
in a pine box with nine shots from my glock , fellas
foxy got you hot , ‘cause you kept your face in her puss
what you think , you getting girls now ‘cause of your looks ?
ne - gro , please ! you no mustache having
with whiskers like a rat , compared to beans you whack
and your man stabbed un and made you take the blame
you ass , went from jaz to hangin' with kane
to irv , to b.i.g. – and eminem murdered you on your own shit
you a dick - riding faggot , you love the attention
queens niggas run you niggas , ask russell simmons ! ha
r - o - c get gunned up and clapped quick
j.j. evans get gunned up and clapped quick
your whole damn record label , gunned up and clapped quick
shawn carter to jay z – damn , you on jaz dick !
so little shorty's getting gunned up and clapped quick
how much of biggie's rhymes is gonna come out your fat lips ?
wanted to be on every last one of my classics
you pop shit , apologize , nigga , just ask kiss !