click links for lyrics ! the playlist link can be found in the song bio !
songs with a ✅ contain verified annotations and/or lyrics !
bruno mars - that's what i like
the weekend - i feel it coming feat. daft punk
sean paul - no lie feat. dua lipa
g - eazy - some kind of drug feat. marc e. bassy ( earwulf remix )
sia - never give up
noah cyrus - make me ( cry ) feat. labrinth
usher - wait for it
the weeknd - party monster
bruno mars - straight up & down
john mayer - love on the weekend
justice - fire
john legend - penthouse floor feat. chance the rapper
dnce - truthfully
little mix - touch
onerepublic - kids ( seeb remix )
childish gambino - redbone
the chain gang of 1974 - slow
the americanos - in my foreign feat. ty dolla $ign , lil yachty , nicky jam & french montana
blackbear - flirt right back
jhené aiko - maniac
nas , dave east , lin - manuel miranda & aloe blacc - wrote my way out
eminem - infinite
e - 40 - puttin' in work
metallica - murder one
highly suspect - for billy
eden prince - p.yt. ( pretty young thing )
trey songz - comin home
post malone - patient
andrew mcmahon in the wilderness - brooklyn , you're killing me
santigold - who i thought you were
jai wolf - gravity feat. jmr
sean paul - tek weh yuh heart feat. tory lanez
aaron camper - blow
pharrell williams - crave
niall horan - this town ( live , 1 mic 1 take ) ✅
bay ledges - safe
miranda lambert - pushin' time
nathaniel rateliff & the night sweats - i did it
grace vanderwaal - i don't know my name
violet days - o.d on you
​pronoun - a million other things
billie eilish - ocean eyes
nvdes - i want to make out at the gay club
run the jewels - 2100 feat. boots
lupe fiasco - made in the usa feat. bianca sings
morgan page - don't give up feat. lissie
michael woods - orchestra feat. jason walker
bridgit mendler - snap my fingers
electric guest - dear to me
banners - holy ground
vallis alps - fading
muna - loudspeaker ( absofacto remix )
lost kings - phone down feat. emily warren ( telykast & bkaye remix )
the knocks - heat feat. sam nelson harris ( manila villa remix )
jorja smith - carry me home feat. maverick sabre