i'm , i'm actually waitin on the bus now
he said we have some kind of special assignment or something
he's supposed to be callin' me , like any minute now , any minute
hold on , hold on , lemme get the phone
hello ? jackson here
ya , what ? you found manuel noriega ?
in the philipines ?
he has a mansion ?
ok , we're on it , we're on it right now... bye
what , what , what , what , what , what , wh - what !
superstar
we light a candle
run laps around the english channel
neptunes , i got a cocker spaniel
we on the run now , you know it ain't no fun now
and where i go , yo niggas can't even come now
you hate the law , nigga break it , i don't care
but when you get caught , remember that i don't care
n.o.r.e. , loved throughout the atmosphere
that mean now we on the run , yo if that ain't clear
weak niggas wanna snitch yo but that ain't fair
yo we down in vegas , money , skies too courageous
i know i'm on the run but still rip stages
they call me animal thug , when i'm in cages
i used to boost razors , roll dice with no aces
now i live secluded in the oasis
gotta take spaces , no time for car races
check my skytel , i got five pages
yo hit lousiana , then atlanta , indiana
forget a city slicker , got country grammar
aiyyo we goin places where my soundscan ain't tough
to where i say i ain't nore , yo it ain't that rough
i leave the jake in my face , asking all this stuff
i gotta keep my mouth shut and don't say what , what
but yo it's hard to , knuckleheads got the heart to
yo from new orleans , l.a. , v.a. to queens
the i - 95 , now we hit the philippines
but now it's different , we gotta stay sober
yo , communicate , startac , motorola
keep it on the hush hush , don't talk too much
thugged out entertainment , you know we touch
all our whips got navigation
while your whips is just garbation
is you knowing what you facing ?
this is the life , yo , of a superstar
fly ass mansions and a million cars
gotta get the cash yo
and it's live or die
the neptunes and noreaga
the limit is the sky
yo , lemme do it again , do it to win
last album was a eight , this one is a ten
and when capone come home , we gon' triple the sin
yo i love my family , treat my folks like kin
rock a ’embrero , like i'm mexican
shouting out my pops , cause yo next to him
he told me every thug nigga is a gentlemen
so i took heed , take my time still won't speed
you know a nigga got kids , so my family need
a little more than they used to get
real not the duplicate
taking no falls , making y'all just recouping it
doing it up , tell me whatcha wanna do wit' it
capone's plan , passport to foreign land
overseas in japan , politicking with chan
yo , n - e - p - t - u - n - e - s
the way they lace a beat like one of the best , what ?
yo , n.o.r.e. , nore , stand for now we on the run eating