yeah , trice
the statik selektah
o back around the corner , got the crack
put in your orders , we 'bout to run up out the storages
it's notorious , the way i got big spitting stories
bme's x - clan , vanglorious
we're not your favorite , fuck it , you know the system
and you buck it , have you revisiting how you used to love it
my niggas spew through the music , acoustics
school kid used to pursue excuses
truth is , i was truant in school
so its influence is foolish , that was my views
i’m back at it , the rap addict , by any means
we gonna get these stacks accurate , no skinny jeans
say he ain't a star , niggas might be right
i'm so regular , nigga gotta shit tonight
take it back selektah , let 'em know it's trice
put your seatbelts on , we gon' ride tonight
and i would like to introduce myse - self , surprise ! hi , it's ike
'bout to get my ike on , i come with a life supply of wife beaters
and my nikes on and a white tee over that iron mic
lookin' fly tonight , feel like i might die from a spider bite
come back as spider - man , park my peter inside a dyke
bitch actin' like she got fuckin' higher standards than meijer's , right
had to pry her fingers off the mothafuckin' breyer's ice cream
with the pliers , like " ahh ! " only a ruthless bastard would do this
take a toothless bitch with no taste buds to ruth's chris
give her toothpicks , stop on the way home , pick up two big bufords
scrupulous , girl , you got a nice pair , but you're plumb stupid !
so when i pull up in that benz , don't try to pretend you ain't interested
to impress your stupid ass friends and refuse to get in woman
and get slammed on the ground and snap like a pool stick against cement
if you sick of dick , pretend it's a musical instrument
you get one shot , do not miss your chance to blow
i can tell at first glance you're a ho cause your pants are so tight
when you dance with o. trice , your implants explode
so cold to dykes , the chance is snow in san francisco
boy i'm from detroit city , you live in animosity
that's a fucked up state to be in , such an atrocity
look where these random thoughts get me in senseless mind babble
" what me ? apologize ? " that's just the way the rhyme unravels
and i wouldn't fucking take it back if i time traveled !
just call me richard , cause i'm a dick
it's also richard cause i feel like you should
pry your fucking mouth up off of it
i said just call me richard , cause i'm a dick
you ain't gotta be no detective to figure out i'm a dick
when i hold my privates it's your first clue , sherlock , prick !
just call me richard
that's my motives , jumpin' off in rovers
all white , like i was right up in the dakotas
or minnesota , did i mention soda ?
when it's mixed with the yola , watch my cup runneth over
cut from a soldier , them ho niggas disposable toaster
putting holes in a nigga getting close enough
bme 'til the credits roll
'til my condition is beyond what the medics know
they wanna edit o , like a prosthetic third
leg let it go , this is shady 1.0 , em let 'em know
i still profit through the process
the prize in my jeans my balls'll never digress
i'm a dick that i brag about
i put it in faster than i drag it out
world , i be your special friend see
cause these suckas suffer from pseudo - penis envy... so !