o. trice , c'mon !
yeah , niggas got me
i'mma get them , it ain't over
you can catch me in the whip with a fifth of pimp juice ( yeah ! )
then i'm popping the clip , bout to fix this issue ( woo ! )
you pray that i don't hit , i ain't equipped to miss you ( no ! )
you're gonna need an ambulance to stitch your tissue ( nigga ! )
or either have a bag on your hip to shit through ( ha ! )
you seen us on the ave , anxious to get you
but my penis is a mag , when i lift it hits you ( da - da - da - da - da ! )
cause i don't go nowhere without my pistol pistol
i , solemnly swear on my , daughter's tears
the nigga that got him in the head will feel it before the year ends
( that's right ) hope you inconspicuous , my friend
cause once the word get back , you in a world of sin ( sin )
bullets will hurdle at him , for trying to murder what's
been determined as the first solo african ( me ! )
to go platinum with an accident happening
well maggots i'm alive with vengeance to get back ( get back ! )
my momma blood pressure was affected from that
my little girl need her daddy on the phone at a certain time
exact now , and niggas act wild ( foul )
but when the mac come out , y'all niggas exile ( blaow ! )
and i don't wanna hear x - y - z
i'm x'ing out your whole entity for trying to kill me ( me nigga )
filthy motherfuckers , i'll show you what real be ( real be nigga )
when these htb's light up your kidneys ( woo ! )
i'm so sincere , you see in a hearse this year
it's not a verse it's a curse from birth and what's on your person over here
this is obie hear him clear , niggas beware
we're coming at you with firearms in air ( yeah nigga ! )
and your purpose so superfluous
how could i be merciful when murking me's a mercenary's goal ? ( uh )
nigga i got paper , i'll have ya ass urgently exposed ( what ! )
no emergency's bringing back your souls
slugs shatter your bones for pat - patting me in the dome
learn this patter - in , we catch him at home , he wrong
that's when automatics sporadically catch him in the abdomen
another dirty motherfucker's gone ( yeah ! )
you can catch me in the whip with a fifth of pimp juice ( yeah ! )
then i'm popping the clip , bout to fix this issue ( woo ! )
you pray that i don't hit , i ain't equipped to miss you ( no ! )
you're gonna need an ambulance to stitch your tissue ( nigga ! )
or either have a bag on your hip to shit through ( ha ! )
you seen us on the ave , anxious to get you
but my penis is a mag , when i lift it hits you ( da - da - da - da - da ! )
cause i don't go nowhere without my pistol pistol
" second round's on me " ( robbin , shootin , killin , murder )
oh shit runnn ! ( robbin , shootin , killin , murder )