click links for lyrics ! the playlist link can be found in the song bio !
songs with a ✅ contain verified annotations and/or lyrics !
zara larsson - ain't my fault
kent jones - alright
cash cash & digital farm animals - millionaire feat. nelly ( alan walker remix )
frenship - 1000 nights
sylvan esso - radio
sting - i can't stop thinking about you
frnd - friend
bon iver - 33 " god "
usher - rivals feat. future
ellie goulding - still falling for you ( jonas blue remix ) ✅
vhs collection - waiting on the summer
mokita & cade - monopoly
james vincent mcmorrow - evil
les gordon - paradise feat. adi
dagny - ultraviolet
weezer - i love the usa
win and woo - recognize feat. ashe
ty dolla $ign - 3 wayz feat. travis scott
erick morillo & eddie thoenick - lost in you feat. angel taylor
sankehips - cruel feat. zayn ( jay pryor remix )
youngr - out of my system
a day to remember - we got this
jimmy eat world - sure and certain
bastille - send them off !
blink - 182 - bored to death ( steve aoki remix )
french montana - 2 times
anderson .paak - am i wrong ( live from spotify house sxsw '16 )
fitz and the tantrums - handclap ( feenixpawl remix )
the radio dept. - swedish guns
dominique - love you better
partybaby - california
tokyo police club - my house
skylar grey - come up for air
nightly - xo
all time low - take cover
safia - my love is gone
gemini - the turnaround
shakey graves - tomorrow
angel olsen - never be mine
alunageorge - mediator
sno - sunrise
declan mckenna - isombard
action bronson - descendants of the stars ( traveling the stars theme )
yo gotti - wait for it feat. blac youngsta
the courteeners - no one will ever replace us
grouplove - enlighten me
r.lum.r - frustrated ( russ macklin remix )
zedd & grey - adrenaline
sondar - ready
sohn - signal
codeko - walking with lions feat. raphaella ( official electric zoo anthem )
mod sun - gucci nail
gucci mane - last time feat. travis scott
wstrn - a - list
the raconteurs - carolina drama ( acoustic mix )
alex aiono - one dance/hasta el amanecer ( mashup )
ryan follese - put a label on it
seth ennis - woke up in nashville
michael bublé - i believe in you
gavin degraw - kite like girl
ben hobbs - animals
sweekuh - how we do feat. cosmos & creature
james blake - timeless feat. vince staples
tkay maidza - carry on feat. killer mike
m.i.a. - freedun feat. zayn