it’s that time of year again , when rupaul’s show heads back to the cable , and the already high level of transphobic content on television spikes. so what better time than now to tackle this issue again ?
rupaul and others contend that the word " tranny " - - which i will now refer to as the " t slur " - - isn’t aimed at trans women , and therefore , he , as a cisgender , gay man , is welcome to use the term as he sees fit. he’s gone so far as to denounce those who have apologized for using the term. “it’s ridiculous ! it’s ridiculous ! ” rupaul told the huffington post’s michelangelo signorile in 2012. “i love the word ‘tr*nny.’ "
elsewhere in that same interview , rupaul became exasperated when discussing the cancellation of the short - lived abc sitcom work it , a show that seemed on track to become the most transphobic piece of media to hit network tv. “we live in a culture where everyone is offended by everything , ” he told the huffington post. “everybody’s like , ‘oh my god , i’m offended ! ’” he continues , “in my circle of friends , we mock everything ! everything is up to be mocked. don’t take life too seriously... if you’re offended by a name that somebody calls you , or something , whatever , you gotta take that up with your therapist , kiddo.” and , in possibly the most ludicrous statement ever constructed , rupaul said , “no one has ever said the word ‘tr*nny’ in a derogatory sense.”
is that so ? so when i sat in the only open seat on a crowded train in the months after coming out as transgender , when the woman next to me said into her phone , “some fucking tr*nny just sat next to me” and decided to stand rather than remain next to me — that wasn’t her being derogatory ? when a group of college kids called me a “tr*nny faggot” as i waited for a bus , triggering a panic attack that left me home sick from work for two days — that wasn’t them being derogatory ? if only i knew that they meant it in a loving , happy way , oh , how things could have been different !
the fact of the matter , ru , is that words do hurt , and when you continue to use words that are frequently used to dehumanize people like me , that are used as precursors for assault , after you’ve been informed how hurtful these words are , you’re no better than a racist who uses the “n word , ” the homophobe who calls gay men “faggots , ” or the misogynist who refers to his female coworkers as “bitches.”
“but parker , ” you ask. “aren’t there bigger issues to worry about ? what about the startlingly high rate of trans suicide attempts , or the number of homeless trans youth , or the number of trans women of color who find themselves the victims of physical violence ? why are you so hung up on a word ? it’s just a word.” well , my inner devil’s advocate , you’re absolutely right. those are important issues , and addressing those should take precedence over whether i have a panic attack after being called the t slur. this isn’t about panic attacks , this is about the systemic dehumanization of trans people.
when someone is no longer treated as though they have a shred of humanity in them , they become easier to attack. it’s the same reason people often use the phrase “born a man” to describe trans women. when someone has a baby , finding “it’s a boy ! ” and “it’s a girl ! ” cards is no problem. i ask you to try to find a card that reads , “it’s a man ! ” you can’t. it’s for this reason that trans people are treated as though they never had the innocence brought on by childhood : it’s easier to attack someone if you don’t view them as ever having been “pure.” when it comes to morally justifying emotional and even physical attack , a man will always be easier to attack than a boy ; a woman will always be easier to attack than a girl ; a t slur will always be easier to attack than a human being.
when you use these words , and when you disregard the concerns that have been brought to you by both trans individuals themselves as well as organizations like glaad , you contribute to those larger problems : homelessness , violence , poverty , and more.
the new season of rupaul's drag race could be used as a chance to change. based on past comments — and there hasn't been anything said publicly since that huffington post interview — it doesn't seem likely. miracles could happen , though , who knows.
in the meantime , rupaul , you dehumanize us , and you teach the public that it’s ok to do the same. once we’re no longer people , once we’re simply t slurs , it’s easy for society to toss us aside , to discriminate against us and beat us , to deny us care and send us to the streets.
i’m a human being , not a tr*nny. knock it off.