carmagnole complete.
simultaneously with this tophet - black aspect , there unfolds itself another aspect , which one may call a tophet - red aspect : the destruction of the catholic religion ; and indeed , for the time being of religion itself. we saw romme's new calendar establish its tenth day of rest ; and asked , what would become of the christian sabbath ? the calendar is hardly a month old , till all this is set at rest. very singular , as mercier observes : last corpus - christi day 1792 , the whole world , and sovereign authority itself , walked in religious gala , with a quite devout air ; —butcher legendre , supposed to be irreverent , was like to be massacred in his gig , as the thing went by. a gallican hierarchy , and church , and church formulas seemed to flourish , a little brown - leaved or so , but not browner than of late years or decades ; to flourish , far and wide , in the sympathies of an unsophisticated people ; defying philosophism , legislature and the encyclopedie. far and wide , alas , like a brown - leaved vallombrosa ; which waits but one whirlblast of the november wind , and in an hour stands bare ! since that corpus - christi day , brunswick has come , and the emigrants , and la vendee , and eighteen months of time : to all flourishing , especially to brown - leaved flourishing , there comes , were it never so slowly , an end.
on the 7th of november , a certain citoyen parens , curate of boissise - le - bertrand , writes to the convention that he has all his life been preaching a lie , and is grown weary of doing it ; wherefore he will now lay down his curacy and stipend , and begs that an august convention would give him something else to live upon. 'mention honorable , ' shall we give him ? or 'reference to committee of finances ? ' hardly is this got decided , when goose gobel , constitutional bishop of paris , with his chapter , with municipal and departmental escort in red nightcaps , makes his appearance , to do as parens has done. goose gobel will now acknowledge 'no religion but liberty ; ' therefore he doffs his priest - gear , and receives the fraternal embrace. to the joy of departmental momoro , of municipal chaumettes and heberts , of vincent and the revolutionary army ! chaumette asks , ought there not , in these circumstances , to be among our intercalary days sans - breeches , a feast of reason ? ( moniteur , seance du 17 brumaire ( 7th november ) , 1793. ) proper surely ! let atheist marechal , lalande , and little atheist naigeon rejoice ; let clootz , speaker of mankind , present to the convention his evidences of the mahometan religion , 'a work evincing the nullity of all religions , '—with thanks. there shall be universal republic now , thinks clootz ; and 'one god only , le peuple.'
the french nation is of gregarious imitative nature ; it needed but a fugle - motion in this matter ; and goose gobel , driven by municipality and force of circumstances , has given one. what cure will be behind him of boissise ; what bishop behind him of paris ? bishop gregoire , indeed , courageously declines ; to the sound of " we force no one ; let gregoire consult his conscience ; " but protestant and romish by the hundred volunteer and assent. from far and near , all through november into december , till the work is accomplished , come letters of renegation , come curates who are 'learning to be carpenters , ' curates with their new - wedded nuns : has not the day of reason dawned , very swiftly , and become noon ? from sequestered townships comes addresses , stating plainly , though in patois dialect , that 'they will have no more to do with the black animal called curay , animal noir , appelle curay.' ( analyse du moniteur ( paris , 1801 ) , ii. 280. )
above all things there come patriotic gifts , of church - furniture. the remnant of bells , except for tocsin , descend from their belfries , into the national meltingpot , to make cannon. censers and all sacred vessels are beaten broad ; of silver , they are fit for the poverty - stricken mint ; of pewter , let them become bullets to shoot the 'enemies of du genre humain.' dalmatics of plush make breeches for him who has none ; linen stoles will clip into shirts for the defenders of the country : old - clothesmen , jew or heathen , drive the briskest trade. chalier's ass procession , at lyons , was but a type of what went on , in those same days , in all towns. in all towns and townships as quick as the guillotine may go , so quick goes the axe and the wrench : sacristies , lutrins , altar - rails are pulled down ; the mass books torn into cartridge papers : men dance the carmagnole all night about the bonfire. all highways jingle with metallic priest - tackle , beaten broad ; sent to the convention , to the poverty - stricken mint. good sainte genevieve's chasse is let down : alas , to be burst open , this time , and burnt on the place de greve. saint louis's shirt is burnt ; —might not a defender of the country have had it ? at saint - denis town , no longer saint - denis but franciade , patriotism has been down among the tombs , rummaging ; the revolutionary army has taken spoil. this , accordingly , is what the streets of paris saw :
'most of these persons were still drunk , with the brandy they had swallowed out of chalices ; —eating mackerel on the patenas ! mounted on asses , which were housed with priests' cloaks , they reined them with priests' stoles : they held clutched with the same hand communion - cup and sacred wafer. they stopped at the doors of dramshops ; held out ciboriums : and the landlord , stoop in hand , had to fill them thrice. next came mules high - laden with crosses , chandeliers , censers , holy - water vessels , hyssops ; —recalling to mind the priests of cybele , whose panniers , filled with the instruments of their worship , served at once as storehouse , sacristy and temple. in such equipage did these profaners advance towards the convention. they enter there , in an immense train , ranged in two rows ; all masked like mummers in fantastic sacerdotal vestments ; bearing on hand - barrows their heaped plunder , —ciboriums , suns , candelabras , plates of gold and silver.' ( mercier , iv. 134. see moniteur , seance du 10 novembre. )
the address we do not give ; for indeed it was in strophes , sung viva voce , with all the parts ; —danton glooming considerably , in his place ; and demanding that there be prose and decency in future. ( see also moniteur , seance du 26 novembre. ) nevertheless the captors of such spolia opima crave , not untouched with liquor , permission to dance the carmagnole also on the spot : whereto an exhilarated convention cannot but accede. nay , 'several members , ' continues the exaggerative mercier , who was not there to witness , being in limbo now , as one of duperret's seventy - three , 'several members , quitting their curule chairs , took the hand of girls flaunting in priest's vestures , and danced the carmagnole along with them.' such old - hallow - tide have they , in this year , once named of grace , 1793.
out of which strange fall of formulas , tumbling there in confused welter , betrampled by the patriotic dance , is it not passing strange to see a new formula arise ? for the human tongue is not adequate to speak what 'triviality run distracted' there is in human nature. black mumbo - jumbo of the woods , and most indian wau - waus , one can understand : but this of procureur anaxagoras whilom john - peter chaumette ? we will say only : man is a born idol - worshipper , sight - worshipper , so sensuous - imaginative is he ; and also partakes much of the nature of the ape.
for the same day , while this brave carmagnole dance has hardly jigged itself out , there arrive procureur chaumette and municipals and departmentals , and with them the strangest freightage : a new religion ! demoiselle candeille , of the opera ; a woman fair to look upon , when well rouged : she , borne on palanquin shoulder - high ; with red woolen nightcap ; in azure mantle ; garlanded with oak ; holding in her hand the pike of the jupiter - peuple , sails in ; heralded by white young women girt in tricolor. let the world consider it ! this , o national convention wonder of the universe , is our new divinity ; goddess of reason , worthy , and alone worthy of revering. nay , were it too much to ask of an august national representation that it also went with us to the ci - devant cathedral called of notre - dame , and executed a few strophes in worship of her ?
president and secretaries give goddess candeille , borne at due height round their platform , successively the fraternal kiss ; whereupon she , by decree , sails to the right - hand of the president and there alights. and now , after due pause and flourishes of oratory , the convention , gathering its limbs , does get under way in the required procession towards notre - dame ; —reason , again in her litter , sitting in the van of them , borne , as one judges , by men in the roman costume ; escorted by wind - music , red nightcaps , and the madness of the world. and so straightway , reason taking seat on the high - altar of notre - dame , the requisite worship or quasi - worship is , say the newspapers , executed ; national convention chanting 'the hymn to liberty , words by chenier , music by gossec.' it is the first of the feasts of reason ; first communion - service of the new religion of chaumette.
'the corresponding festival in the church of saint - eustache , ' says mercier , 'offered the spectacle of a great tavern. the interior of the choir represented a landscape decorated with cottages and boskets of trees. round the choir stood tables over - loaded with bottles , with sausages , pork - puddings , pastries and other meats. the guests flowed in and out through all doors : whosoever presented himself took part of the good things : children of eight , girls as well as boys , put hand to plate , in sign of liberty ; they drank also of the bottles , and their prompt intoxication created laughter. reason sat in azure mantle aloft , in a serene manner ; cannoneers , pipe in mouth , serving her as acolytes. and out of doors , ' continues the exaggerative man , 'were mad multitudes dancing round the bonfire of chapel - balustrades , of priests' and canons' stalls ; and the dancers , i exaggerate nothing , the dancers nigh bare of breeches , neck and breast naked , stockings down , went whirling and spinning , like those dust - vortexes , forerunners of tempest and destruction.' ( mercier , iv. 127 - 146. ) at saint - gervais church again there was a terrible 'smell of herrings ; ' section or municipality having provided no food , no condiment , but left it to chance. other mysteries , seemingly of a cabiric or even paphian character , we heave under the veil , which appropriately stretches itself 'along the pillars of the aisles , '—not to be lifted aside by the hand of history.
but there is one thing we should like almost better to understand than any other : what reason herself thought of it , all the while. what articulate words poor mrs. momoro , for example , uttered ; when she had become ungoddessed again , and the bibliopolist and she sat quiet at home , at supper ? for he was an earnest man , bookseller momoro ; and had notions of agrarian law. mrs. momoro , it is admitted , made one of the best goddesses of reason ; though her teeth were a little defective. and now if the reader will represent to himself that such visible adoration of reason went on 'all over the republic , ' through these november and december weeks , till the church woodwork was burnt out , and the business otherwise completed , he will feel sufficiently what an adoring republic it was , and without reluctance quit this part of the subject.
such gifts of church - spoil are chiefly the work of the armee revolutionnaire ; raised , as we said , some time ago. it is an army with portable guillotine : commanded by playwright ronsin in terrible moustachioes ; and even by some uncertain shadow of usher maillard , the old bastille hero , leader of the menads , september man in grey ! clerk vincent of the war - office , one of pache's old clerks , 'with a head heated by the ancient orators , ' had a main hand in the appointments , at least in the staff - appointments.
but of the marchings and retreatings of these six thousand no xenophon exists. nothing , but an inarticulate hum , of cursing and sooty frenzy , surviving dubious in the memory of ages ! they scour the country round paris ; seeking prisoners ; raising requisitions ; seeing that edicts are executed , that the farmers have thrashed sufficiently ; lowering church - bells or metallic virgins. detachments shoot forth dim , towards remote parts of france ; nay new provincial revolutionary armies rise dim , here and there , as carrier's company of marat , as tallien's bourdeaux troop ; like sympathetic clouds in an atmosphere all electric. ronsin , they say , admitted , in candid moments , that his troops were the elixir of the rascality of the earth. one sees them drawn up in market - places ; travel - plashed , rough - bearded , in carmagnole complete : the first exploit is to prostrate what royal or ecclesiastical monument , crucifix or the like , there may be ; to plant a cannon at the steeple , fetch down the bell without climbing for it , bell and belfry together. this , however , it is said , depends somewhat on the size of the town : if the town contains much population , and these perhaps of a dubious choleric aspect , the revolutionary army will do its work gently , by ladder and wrench ; nay perhaps will take its billet without work at all ; and , refreshing itself with a little liquor and sleep , pass on to the next stage. ( deux amis , xii. 62 - 5. ) pipe in cheek , sabre on thigh ; in carmagnole complete !
such things have been ; and may again be. charles second sent out his highland host over the western scotch whigs ; jamaica planters got dogs from the spanish main to hunt their maroons with : france too is bescoured with a devil's pack , the baying of which , at this distance of half a century , still sounds in the mind's ear.