517 u.s. 44 ( 1996 )
seminole tribe of florida
v.
florida et al.no. 94 - 12.united states supreme court.
argued october 11 , 1995.
decided march 27 , 1996.
certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit*45 *46 rehnquist , c. j. , delivered the opinion of the court , in which o'connor , scalia , kennedy , and thomas , jj. , joined. stevens , j. , filed a dissenting opinion , post , p. 76. souter , j. , filed a dissenting opinion , in which ginsburg and breyer , jj. , joined , post , p. 100.
*47
chief justice rehnquist delivered the opinion of the court.the indian gaming regulatory act provides that an indian tribe may conduct certain gaming activities only in conformance with a valid compact between the tribe and the state in which the gaming activities are located. 102 stat. 2475 , 25 u. s. c. 2710 ( d ) ( 1 ) ( c ) . the act , passed by congress under the indian commerce clause , u. s. const. , art. i , 8 , cl. 3 , imposes upon the states a duty to negotiate in good faith with an indian tribe toward the formation of a compact , 2710 ( d ) ( 3 ) ( a ) , and authorizes a tribe to bring suit in federal court against a state in order to compel performance of that duty , 2710 ( d ) ( 7 ) . we hold that notwithstanding congress' clear intent to abrogate the states' sovereign immunity , the indian commerce clause does not grant congress that power , and therefore 2710 ( d ) ( 7 ) cannot grant jurisdiction over a state that does not consent to be sued. we further hold that the doctrine of ex parte young , 209 u. s. 123 ( 1908 ) , may not be used to enforce 2710 ( d ) ( 3 ) against a state official.
i*48
" ( a ) any indian tribe having jurisdiction over the indian lands upon which a class iii gaming activity is being conducted , or is to be conducted , shall request the state in which such lands are located to enter into negotiations for the purpose of entering into a tribal - state compact governing the conduct of gaming activities. upon receiving such a request , the state shall negotiate with the indian tribe in good faith to enter into such a compact. " the state's obligation to " negotiate with the indian tribe in good faith " is made judicially enforceable by 2710 ( d ) ( 7 ) ( a ) ( i ) and ( b ) ( i ) :
" to temper congress' acknowledged powers of abrogation with due concern for the eleventh amendment's role as an essential component of our constitutional structure , we have applied a simple but stringent test : `congress may abrogate the states' constitutionally secured immunity from suit in federal court only by making its intention unmistakably clear in the language of the statute.' " id. , at 227 - 228.see also welch v. texas dept. of highways and public transp. , 483 u. s. 468 , 474 ( 1987 ) ( plurality opinion ) .
bhaving concluded that congress clearly intended to abrogate the states' sovereign immunity through 2710 ( d ) ( 7 ) , we *58 turn now to consider whether the act was passed " pursuant to a valid exercise of power. " green v. mansour , 474 u. s. , at 68. before we address that question here , however , we think it necessary first to define the scope of our inquiry.
thus our inquiry into whether congress has the power to abrogate unilaterally the states' immunity from suit is narrowly focused on one question : was the act in question passed pursuant to a constitutional provision granting congress the power to abrogate ? see , e. g. , fitzpatrick v. bitzer , 427 u. s. 445 , 452 - 456 ( 1976 ) . previously , in conducting that inquiry , we have found authority to abrogate under only two provisions of the constitution. in fitzpatrick , we recognized that the fourteenth amendment , by expanding federal power at the expense of state autonomy , had fundamentally altered the balance of state and federal power struck by the constitution. id. , at 455. we noted that 1 of the fourteenth amendment contained prohibitions expressly directed at the states and that 5 of the amendment expressly provided that " the congress shall have power to enforce , by appropriate legislation , the provisions of this article. " see id. , at 453 ( internal quotation marks omitted ) . we held that through the fourteenth amendment , federal power extended to intrude upon the province of the eleventh amendment and therefore that 5 of the fourteenth amendment allowed congress to abrogate the immunity from suit guaranteed by that amendment.
in arguing that congress through the act abrogated the states' sovereign immunity , petitioner does not challenge the eleventh circuit's conclusion that the act was passed pursuant to neither the fourteenth amendment nor the interstate commerce clause. instead , accepting the lower court's conclusion that the act was passed pursuant to congress' power under the indian commerce clause , petitioner now asks us to consider whether that clause grants congress the power to abrogate the states' sovereign immunity.
the court in union gas reached a result without an expressed rationale agreed upon by a majority of the court. we have already seen that justice brennan's opinion received the support of only three other justices. see union gas , 491 u. s. , at 5 ( marshall , blackmun , and stevens , jj. , *64 joined justice brennan ) . of the other five , justice white , who provided the fifth vote for the result , wrote separately in order to indicate his disagreement with the plurality's rationale , id. , at 57 ( opinion concurring in judgment and dissenting in part ) , and four justices joined together in a dissent that rejected the plurality's rationale , id. , at 35 - 45 ( scalia , j. , dissenting , joined by rehnquist , c. j. , and o'connor and kennedy , jj. ) . since it was issued , union gas has created confusion among the lower courts that have sought to understand and apply the deeply fractured decision. see , e. g. , chavez v. arte publico press , supra , at 543 - 545 ( " justice white's concurrence must be taken on its face to disavow " the plurality's theory ) ; 11 f. 3d , at 1027 ( justice white's " vague concurrence renders the continuing validity of union gas in doubt " ) .
never before the decision in union gas had we suggested that the bounds of article iii could be expanded by congress operating pursuant to any constitutional provision other than the fourteenth amendment. indeed , it had seemed fundamental that congress could not expand the jurisdiction of the federal courts beyond the bounds of article iii. marbury v. madison , 1 cranch 137 ( 1803 ) . the plurality's citation of prior decisions for support was based upon what we believe to be a misreading of precedent. see union gas , 491 u. s. , at 40 - 41 ( scalia , j. , dissenting ) . the plurality claimed support for its decision from a case holding the unremarkable , and completely unrelated , proposition that the states may waive their sovereign immunity , see id. , at 14 - 15 ( citing parden v. terminal railway of ala. docks dept. , 377 u. s. 184 ( 1964 ) ) , and cited as precedent propositions that had been merely assumed for the sake of argument in earlier cases , see 491 u. s. , at 15 ( citing welch v. texas dept. of highways and public transp. , 483 u. s. , at 475 - 476 , and n. 5 , and county of oneida v. oneida indian nation of n. y. , 470 u. s. , at 252 ) .
the plurality's extended reliance upon our decision in fitzpatrick v. bitzer , 427 u. s. 445 ( 1976 ) , that congress could under the fourteenth amendment abrogate the states' sovereign immunity was also , we believe , misplaced. fitzpatrick was based upon a rationale wholly inapplicable to the interstate commerce clause , viz. , that the fourteenth amendment , adopted well after the adoption of the eleventh amendment and the ratification of the constitution , operated *66 to alter the pre - existing balance between state and federal power achieved by article iii and the eleventh amendment. id. , at 454. as the dissent in union gas made clear , fitzpatrick cannot be read to justify " limitation of the principle embodied in the eleventh amendment through appeal to antecedent provisions of the constitution. " union gas , supra , at 42 ( scalia , j. , dissenting ) .
in the five years since it was decided , union gas has proved to be a solitary departure from established law. see puerto rico aqueduct and sewer authority v. metcalf & eddy , inc. , 506 u. s. 139 ( 1993 ) . reconsidering the decision in union gas , we conclude that none of the policies underlying stare decisis require our continuing adherence to its holding. the decision has , since its issuance , been of questionable precedential value , largely because a majority of the court expressly disagreed with the rationale of the plurality. see nichols v. united states , 511 u. s. 738 , 746 ( 1994 ) ( the " degree of confusion following a splintered decision . . . is itself a reason for reexamining that decision " ) . the case involved the interpretation of the constitution and therefore may be altered only by constitutional amendment or revision by this court. finally , both the result in union gas and the plurality's rationale depart from our established understanding of the eleventh amendment and undermine the accepted function of article iii. we feel bound to conclude that union gas was wrongly decided and that it should be , and now is , overruled.
the dissent , to the contrary , disregards our case law in favor of a theory cobbled together from law review articles and its own version of historical events. the dissent cites not a single decision since hans ( other than union gas ) that supports its view of state sovereign immunity , instead relying upon the now - discredited decision in chisholm v. georgia , 2 dall. 419 ( 1793 ) . see , e. g. , post , at 152 , n. 47. its undocumented and highly speculative extralegal explanation of *69 the decision in hans is a disservice to the court's traditional method of adjudication. see post , at 120 - 123.
the dissent mischaracterizes the hans opinion. that decision found its roots not solely in the common law of england , but in the much more fundamental " `jurisprudence in all civilized nations.' " hans , 134 u. s. , at 17 , quoting beers v. arkansas , 20 how. 527 , 529 ( 1858 ) ; see also the federalist no. 81 , p. 487 ( c. rossiter ed. 1961 ) ( a. hamilton ) ( sovereign immunity " is the general sense and the general practice of mankind " ) . the dissent's proposition that the common law of england , where adopted by the states , was open to change by the legislature is wholly unexceptionable and largely beside the point : that common law provided the substantive rules of law rather than jurisdiction. cf. monaco , supra , at 323 ( state sovereign immunity , like the requirement that there be a " justiciable " controversy , is a constitutionally grounded limit on federal jurisdiction ) . it also is noteworthy that the principle of state sovereign immunity stands distinct from other principles of the common law in that only the former prompted a specific constitutional amendment.
hans with a much closer vantage point than the dissentrecognized that the decision in chisholm was contrary to the well - understood meaning of the constitution. the dissent's conclusion that the decision in chisholm was " reasonable , " post , at 106 , certainly would have struck the framers of the eleventh amendment as quite odd : that decision created " such a shock of surprise that the eleventh amendment was at once proposed and adopted. " monaco , supra , at 325. the dissent's lengthy analysis of the text of the eleventh amendment is directed at a straw manwe long have recognized that blind reliance upon the text of the eleventh amendment is " `to strain the constitution and the law to a construction never imagined or dreamed of.' " monaco , supra , at 326 , quoting hans , supra , at 15. the text dealt in terms only with the problem presented by the decision in chisholm ; in light of the fact that the federal courts did not *70 have federal - question jurisdiction at the time the amendment was passed ( and would not have it until 1875 ) , it seems unlikely that much thought was given to the prospect of federal - question jurisdiction over the states.
iiipetitioner argues that we may exercise jurisdiction over its suit to enforce 2710 ( d ) ( 3 ) against the governor notwithstanding the jurisdictional bar of the eleventh amendment. petitioner notes that since our decision in ex parte young , 209 u. s. 123 ( 1908 ) , we often have found federal jurisdiction over a suit against a state official when that suit seeks only prospective injunctive relief in order to " end a continuing violation of federal law. " green v. mansour , 474 u. s. , at 68. the situation presented here , however , is sufficiently different from that giving rise to the traditional ex parte young action so as to preclude the availability of that doctrine.
here , the " continuing violation of federal law " alleged by petitioner is the governor's failure to bring the state into compliance with 2710 ( d ) ( 3 ) . but the duty to negotiate imposed upon the state by that statutory provision does not stand alone. rather , as we have seen , supra , at 49 - 50 , congress passed 2710 ( d ) ( 3 ) in conjunction with the carefully *74 crafted and intricate remedial scheme set forth in 2710 ( d ) ( 7 ) .
where congress has created a remedial scheme for the enforcement of a particular federal right , we have , in suits against federal officers , refused to supplement that scheme with one created by the judiciary. schweiker v. chilicky , 487 u. s. 412 , 423 ( 1988 ) ( " when the design of a government program suggests that congress has provided what it considers adequate remedial mechanisms for constitutional violations that may occur in the course of its administration , we have not created additional . . . remedies " ) . here , of course , the question is not whether a remedy should be created , but instead is whether the eleventh amendment bar should be lifted , as it was in ex parte young , in order to allow a suit against a state officer. nevertheless , we think that the same general principle applies : therefore , where congress has prescribed a detailed remedial scheme for the enforcement against a state of a statutorily created right , a court should hesitate before casting aside those limitations and permitting an action against a state officer based upon ex parte young.
here , of course , we have found that congress does not have authority under the constitution to make the state suable in federal court under 2710 ( d ) ( 7 ) . nevertheless , the fact that congress chose to impose upon the state a liability *76 that is significantly more limited than would be the liability imposed upon the state officer under ex parte young strongly indicates that congress had no wish to create the latter under 2710 ( d ) ( 3 ) . nor are we free to rewrite the statutory scheme in order to approximate what we think congress might have wanted had it known that 2710 ( d ) ( 7 ) was beyond its authority. if that effort is to be made , it should be made by congress , and not by the federal courts. we hold that ex parte young is inapplicable to petitioner's suit against the governor of florida , and therefore that suit is barred by the eleventh amendment and must be dismissed for a lack of jurisdiction.
justice stevens , dissenting.this case is about powerthe power of the congress of the united states to create a private federal cause of action against a state , or its governor , for the violation of a federal right. in chisholm v. georgia , 2 dall. 419 ( 1793 ) , the entire courtincluding justice iredell whose dissent provided the blueprint for the eleventh amendmentassumed that congress had such power. in hans v. louisiana , 134 u. s. 1 ( 1890 ) a case the court purports to follow todaythe court *77 again assumed that congress had such power. in fitzpatrick v. bitzer , 427 u. s. 445 ( 1976 ) , and pennsylvania v. union gas co. , 491 u. s. 1 , 24 ( 1989 ) ( stevens , j. , concurring ) , the court squarely held that congress has such power. in a series of cases beginning with atascadero state hospital v. scanlon , 473 u. s. 234 , 238 - 239 ( 1985 ) , the court formulated a special " clear statement rule " to determine whether specific acts of congress contained an effective exercise of that power. nevertheless , in a sharp break with the past , today the court holds that with the narrow and illogical exception of statutes enacted pursuant to the enforcement clause of the fourteenth amendment , congress has no such power.
as justice souter has convincingly demonstrated , the court's contrary conclusion is profoundly misguided. despite the thoroughness of his analysis , supported by sound reason , history , precedent , and strikingly uniform scholarly commentary , the shocking character of the majority's affront to a coequal branch of our government merits additional comment.
ifor the purpose of deciding this case , i can readily assume that justice iredell's dissent in chisholm v. georgia , 2 dall. , at 429 - 450 , and the court's opinion in hans v. louisiana , 134 u. s. 1 ( 1890 ) , correctly stated the law that should govern our decision today. as i shall explain , both of those opinions relied on an interpretation of an act of congress rather than a want of congressional power to authorize a suit against the state.
the language of article iii certainly gives no indication that such an implicit bar exists. that provision's text specifically provides for federal - court jurisdiction over all cases arising under federal law. moreover , as i have explained , justice iredell's dissent argued that it was the judiciary act of 1789 , not article iii , that prevented the federal courts from entertaining chisholm's diversity action against georgia. therefore , justice iredell's analysis at least suggests that it was by no means a fixed view at the time of the founding that article iii prevented congress from rendering states suable in federal court by their own citizens. in sum , little more than speculation justifies the conclusion that the eleventh amendment's express but partial limitation on the scope of article iii reveals that an implicit but more general one was already in place.
iithe majority appears to acknowledge that one cannot deduce from either the text of article iii or the plain terms of *84 the eleventh amendment that the judicial power does not extend to a congressionally created cause of action against a state brought by one of that state's citizens. nevertheless , the majority asserts that precedent compels that same conclusion. i disagree. the majority relies first on our decision in hans v. louisiana , 134 u. s. 1 ( 1890 ) , which involved a suit by a citizen of louisiana against that state for a claimed violation of the contracts clause. the majority suggests that by dismissing the suit , hans effectively held that federal courts have no power to hear federal - question suits brought by same - state plaintiffs.
hans does not hold , however , that the eleventh amendment , or any other constitutional provision , precludes federal courts from entertaining actions brought by citizens against their own states in the face of contrary congressional direction. as i have explained before , see pennsylvania v. union gas co. , 491 u. s. , at 25 - 26 ( stevens , j. , concurring ) , and as justice souter effectively demonstrates , hans instead reflects , at the most , this court's conclusion that , as a matter of federal common law , federal courts should decline to entertain suits against unconsenting states. because hans did not announce a constitutionally mandated jurisdictional bar , one need not overrule hans , or even question its reasoning , in order to conclude that congress may direct the federal courts to reject sovereign immunity in those suits not mentioned by the eleventh amendment. instead , one need only follow it.
justice bradley's somewhat cryptic opinion for the court in hans relied expressly on the reasoning of justice iredell's dissent in chisholm , which , of course , was premised on the view that the doctrine of state sovereign immunity was a common - law rule that congress had directed federal courts to respect , not a constitutional immunity that congress was powerless to displace. for that reason , justice bradley explained that the state's immunity from suit by one of its own *85 citizens was based not on a constitutional rule but rather on the fact that congress had not , by legislation , attempted to overcome the common - law presumption of sovereign immunity. his analysis so clearly supports the position rejected by the majority today that it is worth quoting at length.
" but besides the presumption that no anomalous and unheard of proceedings or suits were intended to be raised up by the constitutionanomalous and unheard of when the constitution was adoptedan additional reason why the jurisdiction claimed for the circuit court does not exist , is the language of the act of congress by which its jurisdiction is conferred. the words are these : `the circuit courts of the united states shall have original cognizance , concurrent with the courts of the several states , of all suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity , . . . arising under the constitution or laws of the united states , or treaties , ' etc.'concurrent with the courts of the several states.' does not this qualification show that congress , in legislating to carry the constitution into effect , did not intend to invest its courts with any new and strange jurisdictions ? the state courts have no power to entertain suits by individuals against a state without its consent. then how does the circuit court , having only concurrent jurisdiction , acquire any such power ? it is true that the same qualification existed in the judiciary act of 1789 , which was before the court in chisholm v. georgia , and the majority of the court did not think that it was sufficient to limit the jurisdiction of the circuit court. justice iredell thought differently. in view of the manner in which that decision was received by the country , the adoption of the eleventh amendment , the light of history and the reason of the thing , we think we are at liberty to prefer justice iredell's views in this regard. " hans v. louisiana , 134 u. s. , at 18 - 19.*86 as this passage demonstrates , hans itself looked to see whether congress had displaced the presumption that sovereign immunity obtains. although the opinion did go to great lengths to establish the quite uncontroversial historical proposition that unconsenting states generally were not subject to suit , that entire discussion preceded the opinion's statutory analysis. see id. , at 10 - 18. thus , the opinion's thorough historical investigation served only to establish a presumption against jurisdiction that congress must overcome , not an inviolable jurisdictional restriction that inheres in the constitution itself.
indeed , the very fact that the court characterized the doctrine of sovereign immunity as a " presumption " confirms its assumption that it could be displaced. the hans court's inquiry into congressional intent would have been wholly inappropriate if it had believed that the doctrine of sovereign immunity was a constitutionally inviolable jurisdictional limitation. thus , hans provides no basis for the majority's conclusion that congress is powerless to make states suable in cases not mentioned by the text of the eleventh amendment. instead , hans provides affirmative support for the view that congress may create federal - court jurisdiction over private causes of action against unconsenting states brought by their own citizens.
given the nature of the cause of action involved in hans , as well as the terms of the underlying jurisdictional statute , the court's decision to apply the common - law doctrine of sovereign immunity in that case clearly should not control the outcome here. the reasons that may support a federal court's hesitancy to construe a judicially crafted constitutional remedy narrowly out of respect for a state's sovereignty do not bear on whether congress may preclude a state's invocation of such a defense when it expressly establishes a federal remedy for the violation of a federal right.
no one has ever suggested that congress would be powerless to displace the other common - law immunity doctrines that this court has recognized as appropriate defenses to certain federal claims such as the judicially fashioned remedy in bivens v. six unknown fed. narcotics agents , 403 *88 u. s. 388 ( 1971 ) . see mitchell v. forsyth , 472 u. s. 511 ( 1985 ) ; harlow v. fitzgerald , 457 u. s. 800 ( 1982 ) . similarly , our cases recognizing qualified officer immunity in 42 u. s. c. 1983 actions rest on the conclusion that , in passing that statute , congress did not intend to displace the common - law immunity that officers would have retained under suits premised solely on the general jurisdictional statute. see tower v. glover , 467 u. s. 914 , 920 ( 1984 ) . for that reason , the federal common law of officer immunity that congress meant to incorporate , not a contrary state immunity , applies in 1983 cases. see martinez v. california , 444 u. s. 277 , 284 ( 1980 ) . there is no reason why congress' undoubted power to displace those common - law immunities should be either greater or lesser than its power to displace the common - law sovereign immunity defense.
some of our precedents do state that the sovereign immunity doctrine rests on fundamental constitutional " postulates " and partakes of jurisdictional aspects rooted in article iii. see ante , at 67 - 70. most notably , that reasoning underlies this court's holding in principality of monaco v. mississippi , 292 u. s. 313 ( 1934 ) .
monaco is a most inapt precedent for the majority's holding today. that case barred a foreign sovereign from suing a state in an equitable state - law action to recover payments due on state bonds. it did not , however , involve a claim based on federal law. instead , the case concerned a purely state - law question to which the state had interposed a federal defense. id. , at 317. thus , monaco reveals little about the power of congress to create a private federal cause of action to remedy a state's violation of federal law.
moreover , although monaco attributes a quasiconstitutional status to sovereign immunity , even in cases not covered by the eleventh amendment's plain text , that characterization does not constitute precedent for the proposition that congress is powerless to displace a state's immunity. *89 our abstention doctrines have roots in both the tenth amendment and article iii , and thus may be said to rest on constitutional " postulates " or to partake of jurisdictional aspects. yet it has not been thought that the constitution would prohibit congress from barring federal courts from abstaining. the majority offers no reason for making the federal common - law rule of sovereign immunity less susceptible to congressional displacement than any other quasijurisdictional common - law rule.
" to avoid misapprehension it may be proper to add that , although the obligations of a state rest for their performance upon its honor and good faith , and cannot be made the subject of judicial cognizance unless the state consents to be sued , or comes itself into court ; yet where property or rights are enjoyed under a grant or contract made by a state , they cannot wantonly be invaded. whilst the state cannot be compelled by suit to perform its contracts , any attempt on its part to violate property or rights acquired under its contracts , may be *92 judicially resisted ; and any law impairing the obligation of contracts under which such property or rights are held is void and powerless to affect their enjoyment. " hans v. louisiana , 134 u. s. , at 20 - 21.that conclusion casts doubt on the absolutist view that hans definitively establishes that article iii prohibits federal courts from entertaining federal - question suits brought against states by their own citizens. at the very least , hans suggests that such suits may be brought to enjoin states from impairing existing contractual obligations.
the view that the rule of hans is more substantive than jurisdictional comports with hamilton's famous discussion of sovereign immunity in the federalist papers. hamilton offered his view that the federal judicial power would not extend to suits against unconsenting states only in the context of his contention that no contract with a state could be enforceable against the state's desire. he did not argue that a state's immunity from suit in federal court would be absolute.
iiiin reaching my conclusion that the constitution does not prevent congress from making the state of florida suable in federal court for violating one of its statutes , i emphasize that i agree with the majority that in all cases to which the judicial power does not extendeither because they are not within any category defined in article iii or because they are within the category withdrawn from article iii by the eleventh amendmentcongress lacks the power to confer jurisdiction on the federal courts. as i have previously insisted : " a statute cannot amend the constitution. " pennsylvania v. union gas co. , 491 u. s. , at 24.
it was , therefore , misleading for the court in fitzpatrick v. bitzer , 427 u. s. 445 ( 1976 ) , to imply that 5 of the fourteenth amendment authorized congress to confer jurisdiction over cases that had been withdrawn from article iii by the eleventh amendment. because that action had been brought by connecticut citizens against officials of the state of connecticut , jurisdiction was not precluded by the eleventh amendment. as justice brennan pointed out in his concurrence , the congressional authority to enact the provisions at issue in the case was found in the commerce clause and provided a sufficient basis for refusing to allow the state to " avail itself of the nonconstitutional but ancient doctrine of sovereign immunity. " id. , at 457 ( opinion concurring in judgment ) .
in confronting the question whether a federal grant of jurisdiction is within the scope of article iii , as limited by the eleventh amendment , i see no reason to distinguish among statutes enacted pursuant to the power granted to congress to regulate commerce among the several states , and with the indian tribes , art. i , 8 , cl. 3 , the power to establish *94 uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcy , art. i , 8 , cl. 4 , the power to promote the progress of science and the arts by granting exclusive rights to authors and inventors , art. i , 8 , cl. 8 , the power to enforce the provisions of the fourteenth amendment , 5 , or indeed any other provision of the constitution. there is no language anywhere in the constitutional text that authorizes congress to expand the borders of article iii jurisdiction or to limit the coverage of the eleventh amendment.
ivas i noted above , for the purpose of deciding this case , it is not necessary to question the wisdom of the court's decision in hans v. louisiana. given the absence of precedent for the court's dramatic application of the sovereign immunity doctrine today , it is nevertheless appropriate to identify the questionable heritage of the doctrine and to suggest that there are valid reasons for limiting , or even rejecting that doctrine altogether , rather than expanding it.
except insofar as it has been incorporated into the text of the eleventh amendment , the doctrine is entirely the product of judge - made law. three features of its english ancestry make it particularly unsuitable for incorporation into the law of this democratic nation.
first , the assumption that it could be supported by a belief that " the king can do no wrong " has always been absurd ; the bloody path trod by english monarchs both before and after they reached the throne demonstrated the fictional character of any such assumption. even if the fiction had been acceptable in britain , the recitation in the declaration of independence of the wrongs committed by george iii made that proposition unacceptable on this side of the atlantic.
third , in a society where noble birth can justify preferential treatment , it might have been unseemly to allow a commoner to hale the monarch into court. justice wilson explained how foreign such a justification is to this nation's principles. see chisholm v. georgia , 2 dall. , at 455. moreover , chief justice marshall early on laid to rest the view that the purpose of the eleventh amendment was to protect a state's dignity. cohens v. virginia , 6 wheat. 264 , 406 - 407 ( 1821 ) . its purpose , he explained , was far more practical.
" first , it is nothing more than a restatement of the obvious proposition that a citizen may not sue the sovereign unless the sovereign has violated the citizen's legal rights. it cannot explain application of the immunity defense in cases like chisholm , in which it is assumed that the plaintiff's rights have in fact been violated and those cases are , of course , the only ones in which the immunity defense is needed. second , holmes's statement does not purport to explain why a general grant of jurisdiction to federal courts should not be treated as an adequate expression of the sovereign's consent to suits against itself as well as to suits against *98 ordinary litigants. " stevens , is justice irrelevant ? , 87 nw. u. l. rev. 1121 , 1126 ( 1993 ) .in sum , as far as its common - law ancestry is concerned , there is no better reason for the rule of sovereign immunity " than that so it was laid down in the time of henry iv. " holmes , the path of the law , 10 harv. l. rev. 457 , 469 ( 1897 ) . that " reason " for the perpetuation of this ancient doctrine certainly cannot justify the majority's expansion of it.
while i am persuaded that there is no justification for permanently enshrining the judge - made law of sovereign immunity , i recognize that federalism concernsand even the interest *99 in protecting the solvency of the states that was at work in chisholm and hans may well justify a grant of immunity from federal litigation in certain classes of cases. such a grant , however , should be the product of a reasoned decision by the policymaking branch of our government. for this court to conclude that timeworn shibboleths iterated and reiterated by judges should take precedence over the deliberations of the congress of the united states is simply irresponsible.
vfortunately , and somewhat fortuitously , a jurisdictional problem that is unmentioned by the court may deprive its opinion of precedential significance. the indian gaming regulatory act establishes a unique set of procedures for resolving the dispute between the tribe and the state. if each adversary adamantly adheres to its understanding of the law , if the district court determines that the state's inflexibility constitutes a failure to negotiate in good faith , and if the state thereafter continues to insist that it is acting within its rights , the maximum sanction that the court can impose is an order that refers the controversy to a member of the executive branch of the government for resolution. 25 u. s. c. 2710 ( d ) ( 7 ) ( b ) . as the court of appeals interpreted the act , this final disposition is available even though the action against the state and its governor may not be maintained. 11 f. 3d 1016 , 1029 ( ca11 1994 ) . ( the court does not tell us whether it agrees or disagrees with that disposition. ) in my judgment , it is extremely doubtful that the obviously dispensable involvement of the judiciary in the intermediate stages of a procedure that begins and ends in the executive branch is a proper exercise of judicial power. see gordon v. united states , 117 u. s. appx. 697 , 702 - 703 ( 1864 ) ( opinion of taney , c. j. ) ; united states v. ferreira , 13 how. 40 , 48 ( 1852 ) . it may well follow that the misguided opinion of today's majority has nothing more than an advisory character. whether or not that be so , the better reasoning *100 in justice souter's far wiser and far more scholarly opinion will surely be the law one day.
for these reasons , as well as those set forth in justice souter's opinion , i respectfully dissent.
justice souter , with whom justice ginsburg and justice breyer join , dissenting.in holding the state of florida immune to suit under the indian gaming regulatory act , the court today holds for the first time since the founding of the republic that congress has no authority to subject a state to the jurisdiction of a federal court at the behest of an individual asserting a federal right. although the court invokes the eleventh amendment as authority for this proposition , the only sense in which that amendment might be claimed as pertinent here was tolerantly phrased by justice stevens in his concurring opinion in pennsylvania v. union gas co. , 491 u. s. 1 , 23 ( 1989 ) . there , he explained how it has come about that we have two eleventh amendments , the one ratified in 1795 , the other ( so - called ) invented by the court nearly a century later in hans v. louisiana , 134 u. s. 1 ( 1890 ) . justice stevens saw in that second eleventh amendment no bar to the exercise of congressional authority under the commerce clause in providing for suits on a federal question by individuals against a state , and i can only say that after my own canvass of the matter i believe he was entirely correct in that view , for reasons given below. his position , of course , was also the holding in union gas , which the court now overrules and repudiates.
the fault i find with the majority today is not in its decision to reexamine union gas , for the court in that case produced no majority for a single rationale supporting congressional authority. instead , i part company from the court because i am convinced that its decision is fundamentally mistaken , and for that reason i respectfully dissent.
i*101
it is useful to separate three questions : ( 1 ) whether the states enjoyed sovereign immunity if sued in their own courts in the period prior to ratification of the national constitution ; ( 2 ) if so , whether after ratification the states were entitled to claim some such immunity when sued in a federal court exercising jurisdiction either because the suit was between a state and a nonstate litigant who was not its citizen , or because the issue in the case raised a federal question ; and ( 3 ) whether any state sovereign immunity recognized in federal court may be abrogated by congress.
the adoption of the eleventh amendment soon changed the result in chisholm , not by mentioning sovereign immunity , but by eliminating citizen - state diversity jurisdiction over cases with state defendants. i will explain why the *102 eleventh amendment did not affect federal - question jurisdiction , a notion that needs to be understood for the light it casts on the soundness of hans `s holding that states did enjoy sovereign immunity in federal - question suits. the hans court erroneously assumed that a state could plead sovereign immunity against a noncitizen suing under federal - question jurisdiction , and for that reason held that a state must enjoy the same protection in a suit by one of its citizens. the error of hans `s reasoning is underscored by its clear inconsistency with the founders' hostility to the implicit reception of common - law doctrine as federal law , and with the founders' conception of sovereign power as divided between the states and the national government for the sake of very practical objectives.
the court's answer today to the third question is likewise at odds with the founders' view that common law , when it was received into the new american legal system , was always subject to legislative amendment. in ignoring the reasons for this pervasive understanding at the time of the ratification , and in holding that a nontextual common - law rule limits a clear grant of congressional power under article i , the court follows a course that has brought it to grief before in our history , and promises to do so again.
beyond this third question that elicits today's holding , there is one further issue. to reach the court's result , it must not only hold the hans doctrine to be outside the reach of congress , but must also displace the doctrine of ex parte young , 209 u. s. 123 ( 1908 ) , that an officer of the government may be ordered prospectively to follow federal law , in cases in which the government may not itself be sued directly. none of its reasons for displacing young `s jurisdictional doctrine withstand scrutiny.
the significance of this doctrine in the nascent american law is less clear , however , than its early development and steady endurance in england might suggest. while some colonial governments may have enjoyed some such immunity , jacobs , supra , at 6 - 7 , the scope ( and even the existence ) of this governmental immunity in pre - revolutionary america remains disputed. see gibbons , the eleventh amendment and state sovereign immunity : a reinterpretation , 83 colum. l. rev. 1889 , 1895 - 1899 ( 1983 ) .
*104 whatever the scope of sovereign immunity might have been in the colonies , however , or during the period of confederation , the proposal to establish a national government under the constitution drafted in 1787 presented a prospect unknown to the common law prior to the american experience : the states would become parts of a system in which sovereignty over even domestic matters would be divided or parcelled out between the states and the nation , the latter to be invested with its own judicial power and the right to prevail against the states whenever their respective substantive laws might be in conflict. with this prospect in mind , the 1787 constitution might have addressed state sovereign immunity by eliminating whatever sovereign immunity the states previously had , as to any matter subject to federal law or jurisdiction ; by recognizing an analogue to the old immunity in the new context of federal jurisdiction , but subject to abrogation as to any matter within that jurisdiction ; or by enshrining a doctrine of inviolable state sovereign immunity in the text , thereby giving it constitutional protection in the new federal jurisdiction. see field , the eleventh amendment and other sovereign immunity doctrines : part one , 126 u. pa. l. rev. 515 , 536 - 538 ( 1977 ) .
cthe eleventh amendment , of course , repudiated chisholm and clearly divested federal courts of some jurisdiction as to cases against state parties :
it should accordingly come as no surprise that the weightiest commentary following the amendment's adoption described it simply as constricting the scope of the citizenstate diversity clauses. in cohens v. virginia , 6 wheat. 264 ( 1821 ) , for instance , chief justice marshall , writing for the court , emphasized that the amendment had no effect on federal courts' jurisdiction grounded on the " arising under " provision of article iii and concluded that " a case arising under the constitution or laws of the united states , is cognizable in the courts of the union , whoever may be the parties to that case. " id. , at 383. the point of the eleventh amendment , according to cohens , was to bar jurisdiction in suits at common law by revolutionary war debt creditors , *113 not " to strip the government of the means of protecting , by the instrumentality of its courts , the constitution and laws from active violation. " id. , at 407.
the treatment of the amendment in osborn v. bank of united states , 9 wheat. 738 ( 1824 ) , was to the same effect. the amendment was held there to be no bar to an action against the state seeking the return of an unconstitutional tax. " the eleventh amendment of the constitution has exempted a state from the suits of citizens of other states , or aliens , " marshall stated , omitting any reference to cases that arise under the constitution or federal law. id. , at 847.
athe louisiana plaintiff in hans held bonds issued by that state , which , like virtually all of the southern states , had issued them in substantial amounts during the reconstruction era to finance public improvements aimed at stimulating *118 industrial development. e. foner , reconstruction : america's unfinished revolution 1863 - 1877 , pp. 383 - 384 ( 1988 ) ; gibbons , 83 colum. l. rev. , at 1976 - 1977. as reconstruction governments collapsed , however , the postreconstruction regimes sought to repudiate these debts , and the hans litigation arose out of louisiana's attempt to renege on its bond obligations.
taking hans only as far as its holding , its vulnerability is apparent. the court rested its opinion on avoiding the supposed anomaly of recognizing jurisdiction to entertain a citizen's federal - question suit , but not one brought by a noncitizen. see hans , supra , at 10 - 11. there was , however , no such anomaly at all. as already explained , federalquestion cases are not touched by the eleventh amendment , which leaves a state open to federal - question suits by citizens and noncitizens alike. if hans had been from massachusetts the eleventh amendment would not have barred his action against louisiana.
although there was thus no anomaly to be cured by hans , the case certainly created its own anomaly in leaving federal courts entirely without jurisdiction to enforce paramount federal law at the behest of a citizen against a state that broke it. it destroyed the congruence of the judicial power under article iii with the substantive guarantees of the constitution , and with the provisions of statutes passed by congress in the exercise of its power under article i : when a state injured an individual in violation of federal law no federal forum could provide direct relief. absent an alternative process to vindicate federal law ( see part iv , infra ) john marshall saw just what the consequences of this anomaly would be in the early republic , and he took that consequence as good evidence that the framers could never have intended such a scheme.
*120 " different states may entertain different opinions on the true construction of the constitutional powers of congress. we know that , at one time , the assumption of the debts contracted by the several states , during the war of our revolution , was deemed unconstitutional by some of them. . . . states may legislate in conformity to their opinions , and may enforce those opinions by penalties. it would be hazarding too much to assert that the judicatures of the states will be exempt from the prejudices by which the legislatures and people are influenced , and will constitute perfectly impartial tribunals. in many states the judges are dependent for office and for salary on the will of the legislature. the constitution of the united states furnishes no security against the universal adoption of this principle. when we observe the importance which that constitution attaches to the independence of judges , we are the less inclined to suppose that it can have intended to leave these constitutional questions to tribunals where this independence may not exist. " cohens v. virginia , 6 wheat. , at 386 - 387.and yet that is just what hans threatened to do.
iiithree critical errors in hans weigh against constitutionalizing its holding as the majority does today. the first we have already seen : the hans court misread the eleventh amendment , see supra , at 118 - 123. it also misunderstood the conditions under which common - law doctrines were received or rejected at the time of the founding , and it fundamentally mistook the very nature of sovereignty in the young republic that was supposed to entail a state's immunity to federal - question jurisdiction in a federal court. while i would not , as a matter of stare decisis , overrule hans today , an understanding of its failings on these points will show how the court today simply compounds already serious error in taking hans the further step of investing its rule with constitutional inviolability against the considered judgment of congress to abrogate it.
the result was that " the increasing influx of common - law principles by no means obliterated the indigenous systems which had developed during the colonial era and that there existed important differences inlaw in action on the two sides of the atlantic. " hall , supra , at 797.
madison made this assumption absolutely clear during the subsequent debates over the alien and sedition acts , which raised the issue of whether the framers intended to recognize a general federal jurisdiction to try common - law crimes. rejecting the idea of any federal reception , madison insisted that
" it is inherent in the nature of sovereignty , not to be amenable to the suit of an individual without its consent. this is the general sense and the general practice of mankind ; and the exemption , as one of the attributes of sovereignty , is now enjoyed by the government of every state in the union. unless therefore , there is a surrender of this immunity in the plan of the convention , it will remain with the states , and the danger intimated must be merely ideal. " the federalist no. 81 , pp. 548 - 549 ( j. cooke ed. 1961 ) .see generally fletcher , a historical interpretation of the eleventh amendment : a narrow construction of an affirmative grant of jurisdiction rather than a prohibition against jurisdiction , 35 stan. l. rev. 1033 , 1045 - 1054 ( 1983 ) ( discussing the adoption of the citizen - state diversity clauses ) ; gibbons , 83 colum. l. rev. , at 1902 - 1914. the majority sees in these statements , and chiefly in hamilton's discussion of sovereign immunity in the federalist no. 81 , an unequivocal mandate " which would preclude all federal jurisdiction over an unconsenting state. " ante , at 70. but there is no such mandate to be found.
as i have already said , the immediate context of hamilton's discussion in federalist no. 81 has nothing to do with federal - question cases. it addresses a suggestion " that an assignment of the public securities of one state to the citizens of another , would enable them to prosecute that state in the federal courts for the amount of those securities. " the federalist no. 81 , at 548. hamilton is plainly talking about a *145 suit subject to a federal court's jurisdiction under the citizen - state diversity clauses of article iii.
the general statement on sovereign immunity emphasized by the majority then follows , along with a reference back to the federalist no. 32. the federalist no. 81 , at 548. what hamilton draws from that prior paper , however , is not a general conclusion about state sovereignty but a particular point about state contracts :
quite apart , however , from its application to this particular act of congress exercising the indian commerce power , hamilton's sovereignty discussion quoted above places the court in an embarrassing dilemma. hamilton posited four categories : congressional legislation on ( a ) subjects committed expressly and exclusively to congress , ( b ) subjects over which state authority is expressly negated , ( c ) subjects over which concurrent authority would be impossible ( as " contradictory and repugnant " ) , and ( d ) subjects over which concurrent authority is not only possible , but its exercise by both is limited only by considerations of policy ( as when one taxing authority is politically deterred from adding too much to the exaction the other authority is already making ) . but what of those situations involving concurrent powers , like the power over interstate commerce , see , e. g. , cooley v. board of wardens of port of philadelphia ex rel. soc. for relief of distressed pilots , 12 how. 299 ( 1852 ) ( recognizing power of states to engage in some regulation of interstate commerce ) , when a congressional statute not only binds the states but even creates an affirmative obligation on the state *149 as such , as in this case ? hamilton's discussion does not seem to cover this ( quite possibly because , as a good political polemicist , he did not wish to raise it ) . if infact it is fair to say that hamilton does not cover this situation , then the court cannot claim him as authority for the preservation of state sovereignty and consequent immunity. if , however , on what i think is an implausible reading , one were to try to shoehorn this situation into hamilton's category ( c ) ( on the theory that concurrent authority is impossible after passage of the congressional legislation ) , then any claim of sovereignty and consequent immunity is gone entirely.
in sum , either the majority reads hamilton as i do , to say nothing about sovereignty or immunity in such a case , or it will have to read him to say something about it that bars any state immunity claim. that is the dilemma of the majority's reliance on hamilton's the federalist no. 81 , with its reference to no. 32. either way , he is no authority for the court's position.
2we said in blatchford v. native village of noatak , 501 u. s. 775 , 779 ( 1991 ) , that " the states entered the federal system with their sovereignty intact , " but we surely did not mean that they entered that system with the sovereignty they would have claimed ifeach state had assumed independent existence in the community of nations , for even the articles of confederation allowed for less than that. see articles of confederation , art. vi , 1 ( " no state without the consent of the united states in congress assembled , shall send any embassy to , or receive any embassy from , or enter into any conference , agreement , alliance or treaty with any king , prince or state . . . " ) . while there is no need here to calculate exactly how close the american states came to sovereignty in the classic sense prior to ratification of the constitution , it is clear that the act of ratification affected their sovereignty in a way different from any previous political event in america or anywhere else. for the adoption of the constitution made them members of a novel federal system that sought to balance the states' exercise of some sovereign prerogatives delegated from their own people with the principle of a limited but centralizing federal supremacy.
cthe considerations expressed so far , based on text , chisholm , caution in common - law reception , and sovereignty theory , have pointed both to the mistakes inherent in hans and , even more strongly , to the error of today's holding. although for reasons of stare decisis i would not today disturb the century - old precedent , i surely would not extend its error by placing the common - law immunity it mistakenly recognized beyond the power of congress to abrogate. in doing just that , however , today's decision declaring state sovereign immunity itself immune from abrogation in federal - question cases is open to a further set of objections peculiar to itself. for today's decision stands condemned alike by the framers' abhorrence of any notion that such common - law rules as might be received into the new legal systems would be beyond the legislative power to alter or repeal , and by its resonance with this court's previous essays in constitutionalizing common - law rules at the expense of legislative authority.
1i have already pointed out how the views of the framers reflected the caution of state constitutionalists and legislators over reception of common - law rules , a caution that the framers exalted to the point of vigorous resistance to any idea that english common - law rules might be imported wholesale through the new constitution. the state politicians also took pains to guarantee that once a common - law rule had been received , it would always be subject to legislative alteration , and again the state experience was reflected in the framers' thought. indeed , the framers' very insistence *160 that no common - law doctrine would be received by virtue of ratification was focused in their fear that elements of the common law might thereby have been placed beyond the power of congress to alter by legislation.
2*165
it was the defining characteristic of the lochner era , and its characteristic vice , that the court treated the commonlaw background ( in those days , common - law property rights and contractual autonomy ) as paramount , while regarding congressional legislation to abrogate the common law on these economic matters as constitutionally suspect. see , e. g. , adkins v. childrens hospital of d. c. , 261 u. s. 525 , 557 ( 1923 ) ( finding abrogation of common - law freedom to contract for any wage an unconstitutional " compulsory exaction " ) ; see generally sunstein , lochner's legacy , 87 colum. l. rev. 873 ( 1987 ) . and yet the superseding lesson that seemed clear after west coast hotel co. v. parrish , 300 u. s. 379 ( 1937 ) , that action within the legislative power is not subject to greater scrutiny merely because it trenches upon the case law's ordering of economic and social relationships , seems to have been lost on the court.
the majority today , indeed , seems to be going lochner one better. when the court has previously constrained the express article i powers by resort to common - law or background principles , it has done so at least in an ostensible effort to give content to some other written provision of the constitution , like the due process clause , the very object of *167 which is to limit the exercise of governmental power. see , e. g. , adair v. united states , 208 u. s. 161 ( 1908 ) . some textual argument , at least , could be made that the court was doing no more than defining one provision that happened to be at odds with another. today , however , the court is not struggling to fulfill a responsibility to reconcile two arguably conflicting and delphic constitutional provisions , nor is it struggling with any delphic text at all. for even the court concedes that the constitution's grant to congress of plenary power over relations with indian tribes at the expense of any state claim to the contrary is unmistakably clear , and this case does not even arguably implicate a textual trump to the grant of federal - question jurisdiction.
i know of only one other occasion on which the court has spoken of extending its reach so far as to declare that the plain text of the constitution is subordinate to judicially discoverable principles untethered to any written provision. justice chase once took such a position almost 200 years ago :
" there are certain vital principles in our free republican governments , which will determine and over - rule an apparent and flagrant abuse of legislative power. . . . an act of the legislature ( for i cannot call it a law ) contrary to the great first principles of the social compact , cannot be considered a rightful exercise of legislative authority. " calder v. bull , 3 dall. 386 , 388 ( 1798 ) ( emphasis deleted ) .this position was no less in conflict with american constitutionalism in 1798 than it is today , being inconsistent with the framers' view of the constitution as fundamental law. justice iredell understood this , and dissented ( again ) in an opinion that still answers the position that " vital " or " background " principles , without more , may be used to confine a clear constitutional provision :
iv*169
the court's holding that the states' hans immunity may not be abrogated by congress leads to the final question in this case , whether federal - question jurisdiction exists to order prospective relief enforcing igra against a state officer , respondent chiles , who is said to be authorized to take the action required by the federal law. just as with the issue about authority to order the state as such , this question is entirely jurisdictional , and we need not consider here whether petitioner seminole tribe would have a meritorious argument for relief , or how much practical relief the requested order ( to bargain in good faith ) would actually provide to the tribe. nor , of course , does the issue turn in any way on one's views about the scope of the eleventh amendment or hans and its doctrine , for we ask whether the state officer is subject to jurisdiction only on the assumption that action directly against the state is barred. the answer to this question is an easy yes , the officer is subject to suit under the rule in ex parte young , 209 u. s. 123 ( 1908 ) , and the case could , and should , readily be decided on this point alone.
ain ex parte young , this court held that a federal court has jurisdiction in a suit against a state officer to enjoin official actions violating federal law , even though the state itself may be immune. under young , " a federal court , consistent with the eleventh amendment , may enjoin state officials to conform their future conduct to the requirements of federal law. " quern v. jordan , 440 u. s. 332 , 337 ( 1979 ) ; see also milliken v. bradley , 433 u. s. 267 , 289 ( 1977 ) .
the fact , without more , that such suits may have a significant impact on state governments does not count under young. milliken , for example , was a suit , under the authority of young , brought against michigan's governor , attorney general , board of education , superintendent of public instruction , *170 and treasurer , which resulted in an order obligating the state of michigan to pay money from its treasury to fund an education plan. the relief requested ( and obtained ) by the plaintiffs effectively ran against the state : state moneys were to be removed from the state treasury , and they were to be spent to fund a remedial education program that it would be the state's obligation to implement. to take another example , quern v. jordan involved a court order requiring state officials to notify welfare beneficiaries of the availability of past benefits. once again , the defendants were state officials , but it was the obligation of the state that was really at issue : the notices would be sent from the state welfare agency , to be returned to the state agency , and the state agency would pay for the notices and any ensuing awards of benefits. indeed , in the years since young was decided , the court has recognized only one limitation on the scope of its doctrine : under edelman v. jordan , 415 u. s. 651 ( 1974 ) , young permits prospective relief only and may not be applied to authorize suits for retrospective monetary relief.
bthis history teaches that it was only a matter of course that once the national constitution had provided the opportunity for some recognition of state sovereign immunity , the necessity revealed through six centuries or more of history would show up in suits against state officers , just as hans would later open the door to ex parte young itself. once , then , the eleventh amendment was understood to forbid suit *172 against a state eo nomine , the question arose " which suits against officers will be allowed and which will not be. " jaffe , 77 harv. l. rev. , at 20.
" it early became clear that a suit against an officer was not forbidden simply because it raised a question as to the legality of his action as an agent of government or because it required him , as in mandamus , to perform an official duty. these as we know had been well established before the eleventh amendment as not necessarily requiring consent. to be sure the renewed emphasis on immunity given by the eleventh amendment might conceivably have been taken so to extend the doctrine as to exclude suits against state officers even in cases where the english tradition would have allowed them. there was a running battle as to where the line would be drawn. the amendment was appealed to as an argument for generous immunity. but there was the vastly powerful counter pressure for the enforcement of constitutional limits on the states. the upshot . . . was to confine the amendment's prohibition more or less to the occasion which gave it birth , to wit , the enforcement of contracts and to most ( though not all ) suits involving the title and disposition of a state's real and personal property. " id. , at 20 - 21.the earliest cases , united states v. peters , 5 cranch 115 ( 1809 ) , and osborn v. bank of united states , 9 wheat. 738 ( 1824 ) , embrace the english practice of permitting suits against officers , see orth , judicial power of the united states , at 34 - 35 , 40 - 41 , 122 , by focusing almost exclusively on whether the state had been named as a defendant. governor of georgia v. madrazo , 1 pet. 110 , 123 - 124 ( 1828 ) , shifted this analysis somewhat , finding that a governor could not be sued because he was sued " not by his name , but by his title , " which was thought the functional equivalent of suing the state itself. madrazo did not , however , erase the *173 fundamental principle of osborn that sovereign immunity would not bar a suit against a state officer. see , e. g. , davis v. gray , 16 wall. 203 ( 1873 ) ( applying osborn by enjoining the governor of texas to interfere with the possession of land granted by the state ) ; united states v. lee , 106 u. s. 196 ( 1882 ) ( applying osborn in context of federal sovereign immunity ) .
this simple rule for recognizing sovereign immunity without gutting substantial rights was temporarily muddled in louisiana v. jumel , 107 u. s. 711 ( 1883 ) , where the court , although it " did not clearly say why , " refused to hear a suit that would have required a state treasurer to levy taxes to pay interest on a bond. currie , sovereign immunity and suits against government officers , 1984 s. ct. rev. 149 , 152. ( one recalls the circumstances of hans itself , see supra , at 117 - 121. ) the court , however , again applied osborn in the virginia coupon cases , 114 u. s. 269 ( 1885 ) ( permitting injunctions , restitution , and damages against state officers who seized property to collect taxes already paid with interest coupons the state had agreed to accept ) . in re ayers , 123 u. s. 443 , 502 ( 1887 ) , sought to rationalize the competing strands of doctrine on the ground that an action may be " sustained only in those instances where the act complained of , considered apart from the official authority alleged as its justification , and as the personal act of the individual defendant , constituted a violation of right for which the plaintiff was entitled to a remedy at law or in equity against the wrongdoer in his individual character. "
ex parte young restored the old simplicity by complementing in re ayers with the principle that state officers never have authority to violate the constitution or federal law , so that any illegal action is stripped of state character and rendered an illegal individual act. suits against these officials are consequently barred by neither the eleventh amendment nor hans immunity. the officer's action " is simply an illegal act upon the part of a state official in attempting *174 by the use of the name of the state to enforce a legislative enactment which is void because unconstitutional. . . . the state has no power to impart to him any immunity from responsibility to the supreme authority of the united states. " ex parte young , 209 u. s. , at 159 - 160.
the decision in ex parte young , and the historic doctrine it embodies , thus plays a foundational role in american constitutionalism , and while the doctrine is sometimes called a " fiction , " the long history of its felt necessity shows it to be something much more estimable , as we may see by considering the facts of the case. " young was really and truly about to damage the interest of plaintiffs. whether what he was about to do amounted to a legal injury depended on the authority of his employer , the state. if the state could constitutionally authorize the act then the loss suffered by plaintiffs was not a wrong for which the law provided a remedy. . . . if the state could not constitutionally authorize the act then young was not acting by its authority. " orth , judicial power of the united states , at 133. the doctrine we call ex parte young is nothing short of " indispensable to the establishment of constitutional government and the rule of law. " c. wright , law of federal courts 292 ( 4th ed. 1983 ) . see also chemerinsky , federal jurisdiction , at 393.
cthere is no question that by its own terms young `s indispensable rule authorizes the exercise of federal jurisdiction over respondent chiles. since this case does not , of course , involve retrospective relief , edelman `s limit is irrelevant , and there is no other jurisdictional limitation. obviously , for jurisdictional purposes it makes no difference in principle whether the injunction orders an official not to act , as in young , or requires the official to take some positive step , as in milliken or quern. nothing , then , in this case renders young unsuitable as a jurisdictional basis for determining on the merits whether petitioner is entitled to an order against a state official under general equitable doctrine. the court does not say otherwise , and yet it refuses to apply young. there is no adequate reason for its refusal.
no clear statement of intent to displace the doctrine of ex parte young occurs in igra , and the court is instead *176 constrained to rest its effort to skirt young on a series of suggestions thought to be apparent in congress's provision of " intricate procedures " for enforcing a state's obligation under the act. the procedures are said to implicate a rule against judicial creativity in devising supplementary procedures ; it is said that applying young would nullify the statutory procedures ; and finally the statutory provisions are said simply to reveal a congressional intent to preclude the application of young.
chilicky `s remoteness from the point of this case is , however , apparent from its facts. in chilicky , congress had addressed the problem of erroneous denials of certain government benefits by creating a scheme of appeals and awards that would make a successful claimant whole for all benefits wrongly denied. the question was whether this court should create a further remedy on the model of bivens v. six unknown fed. narcotics agents , 403 u. s. 388 ( 1971 ) , for such harms as emotional distress , when the erroneous denial of benefits had involved a violation of procedural due process. the issue , then , was whether to create a supplemental remedy , backward looking on the bivens model , running against a federal official in his personal capacity , and requiring an *177 affirmative justification ( as bivens does ) . see bivens , supra ; fdic v. meyer , 510 u. s. 471 , 484 - 486 ( 1994 ) .
the bivens issue in chilicky ( and in meyer ) is different from the young issue here in every significant respect. young is not an example of a novel rule that a proponent has a burden to justify affirmatively on policy grounds in every context in which it might arguably be recognized ; it is a general principle of federal equity jurisdiction that has been recognized throughout our history and for centuries before our own history began. young does not provide retrospective monetary relief but allows prospective enforcement of federal law that is entitled to prevail under the supremacy clause. it requires not money payments from a government employee's personal pocket , but lawful conduct by a public employee acting in his official capacity. young would not function here to provide a merely supplementary regime of compensation to deter illegal action , but the sole jurisdictional basis for an article iii court's enforcement of a clear federal statutory obligation , without which a congressional act would be rendered a nullity in a federal court. one cannot intelligibly generalize from chilicky `s standards for imposing the burden to justify a supplementary scheme of tort law to the displacement of young `s traditional and indispensable jurisdictional basis for ensuring official compliance with federal law when a state itself is immune from suit.
this , of course , cannot be the law , and the plausible rationale for rejecting the court's contrary assumption is that congress has just as much authority to regulate suits when jurisdiction depends on young as it has to regulate when young is out of the jurisdictional picture. if young does not preclude congress from requiring state exhaustion in habeas cases ( and it clearly does not ) , then young does not bar the application of igra's procedures when effective relief is sought by suing a state officer.
3the court's third strand of reasoning for displacing ex parte young is a supposed inference that congress so intended. *180 since the court rests this inference in large part on its erroneous assumption that the statute's procedural limitations would not be applied in a suit against an officer for which young provided the jurisdictional basis , the error of that assumption is enough to show the unsoundness of any inference that congress meant to exclude young `s application. but there are further reasons pointing to the utter implausibility of the court's reading of the congressional mind.
but even if the jurisdictional provision had spoken narrowly of an action against the state itself ( as it subsequently speaks in terms of the state's obligation ) , that would be no indication that congress had rejected the application of young. an order requiring a " state " to comply with federal *181 law can , of course , take the form of an order directed to the state in its sovereign capacity. but as ex parte young and innumerable other cases show , there is nothing incongruous about a duty imposed on a " state " that congress intended to be effectuated by an order directed to an appropriate state official. the habeas corpus statute , again , comes to mind. it has long required " the state , " by " order directed to an appropriate state official , " to produce the state - court record where an indigent habeas petitioner argues that a state court's factual findings are not fairly supported in the record. see 28 u. s. c. 2254 ( e ) ( " the state shall produce such part of the record and the federal court shall direct the state to do so by order directed to an appropriate state official " ) . if , then , igra's references to " a state's " duty were not enforceable by order to a state official , it would have to be for some other reason than the placement of the statutory duty on " the state. "
it may be that even the court agrees , for it falls back to the position , see ante , at 75 , n. 17 , that only a state , not a state officer , can enter into a compact. this is true but wholly beside the point. the issue is whether negotiation should take place as required by igra and an officer ( indeed , only an officer ) can negotiate. in fact , the only case cited by the court , state ex rel. stephan v. finney , 251 kan. 559 , 836 p. 2d 1169 ( 1992 ) , makes that distinction abundantly clear.
finally , one must judge the court's purported inference by stepping back to ask why congress could possibly have intended to jeopardize the enforcement of the statute by excluding application of young `s traditional jurisdictional rule , when that rule would make the difference between success or failure in the federal court if state sovereign immunity was recognized. why would congress have wanted to go for broke on the issue of state immunity in the event the state pleaded immunity as a jurisdictional bar ? why would congress not have wanted igra to be enforced by means of *182 a traditional doctrine giving federal courts jurisdiction over state officers , in an effort to harmonize state sovereign immunity with federal law that is paramount under the supremacy clause ? there are no plausible answers to these questions.
dthere is , finally , a response to the court's rejection of young that ought to go without saying. our long - standing practice is to read ambiguous statutes to avoid constitutional infirmity , edward j. debartolo corp. v. florida gulf coast building & constr. trades council , 485 u. s. 568 , 575 ( 1988 ) ( " `every reasonable construction must be resorted to , in order to save a statute from unconstitutionality' " ) ( quoting hooper v. california , 155 u. s. 648 , 657 ( 1895 ) ) . this practice alone ( without any need for a clear statement to displace young ) would be enough to require young `s application. so , too , would the application of another rule , requiring courts to choose any reasonable construction of a statute that would eliminate the need to confront a contested constitutional issue ( in this case , the place of state sovereign immunity in federal - question cases and the status of union gas ) . nlrb v. catholic bishop of chicago , 440 u. s. 490 , 500 - 501 ( 1979 ) . construing the statute to harmonize with young , as it readily does , would have saved an act of congress and rendered a discussion on constitutional grounds wholly unnecessary. this case should be decided on this basis alone.
vabsent the application of ex parte young , i would , of course , follow union gas in recognizing congressional power under article i to abrogate hans immunity. since the reasons for this position , as explained in parts iiiii , supra , tend to unsettle hans as well as support union gas , i should add a word about my reasons for continuing to accept hans `s holding as a matter of stare decisis.
*183 the hans doctrine was erroneous , but it has not previously proven to be unworkable or to conflict with later doctrine or to suffer from the effects of facts developed since its decision ( apart from those indicating its original errors ) . i would therefore treat hans as it has always been treated in fact until today , as a doctrine of federal common law. for , as so understood , it has formed one of the strands of the federal relationship for over a century now , and the stability of that relationship is itself a value that stare decisis aims to respect.
when judging legislation passed under unmistakable article i powers , no further restriction could be required. nor does the court explain why more could be demanded. in the past , we have assumed that a plain - statement requirement is sufficient to protect the states from undue federal encroachments upon their traditional immunity from suit. see , e. g. , welch v. texas dept. of highways & public transp. , 483 u. s. , at 475 ; atascadero state hospital v. scanlon , 473 u. s. , at 239 - 240. it is hard to contend that this rule has set the bar too low , for ( except in union gas ) we have never found the requirement to be met outside the context of laws passed under 5 of the fourteenth amendment. the exception i would recognize today proves the rule , moreover , because the federal abrogation of state immunity comes as part of a regulatory scheme which is itself designed to invest the states with regulatory powers that congress need not extend to them. this fact suggests to me that the political safeguards of federalism are working , that a plainstatement rule is an adequate check on congressional overreaching , and that today's abandonment of that approach is wholly unwarranted.
there is an even more fundamental " clear statement " principle , however , that the court abandons today. john marshall recognized it over a century and a half ago in the very context of state sovereign immunity in federal - question cases :
*185 " the jurisdiction of the court , then , being extended by the letter of the constitution to all cases arising under it , or under the laws of the united states , it follows that those who would withdraw any case of this description from that jurisdiction , must sustain the exemption they claim on the spirit and true meaning of the constitution , which spirit and true meaning must be so apparent as to overrule the words which its framers have employed. " cohens v. virginia , 6 wheat. , at 379 - 380.because neither text , precedent , nor history supports the majority's abdication of our responsibility to exercise the jurisdiction entrusted to us in article iii , i would reverse the judgment of the court of appeals.
briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the state of california et al. by daniel e. lungren , attorney general of california , manuel m. medeiros , deputy attorney general , and thomas f. gede , special assistant attorney general , christine o. gregoire , attorney general of washington , and jonathan tate mccoy , assistant attorney general , joined by the attorneys general for their respective jurisdictions as follows : jeff sessions of alabama , grant woods of arizona , winston bryant of arkansas , gale a. norton of colorado , richard blumenthal of connecticut , margery s. bronster of hawaii , alan lance of idaho , carla j. stovall of kansas , richard p. ieyoub of louisiana , andrew ketterer of maine , scott harshbarger of massachusetts , frank j. kelley of michigan , mike moore of mississippi , jeremiah w. nixon of missouri , joseph p. mazurek of montana , don stenberg of nebraska , frankie sue del papa of nevada , jeffrey r. howard of new hampshire , dennis c. vacco of new york , michael f. easley of north carolina , betty d. montgomery of ohio , drew edmondson of oklahoma , ernest d. preate , jr. , of pennsylvania , jeffrey b. pine of rhode island , mark barnett of south dakota , dan morales of texas , jeffrey l. amestoy of vermont , james s. gilmore iii of virginia , and darrell v. mcgraw , jr. , of west virginia ; and for the national governors' association et al. by richard ruda and richard g. taranto.
richard dauphinais , arlinda f. locklear , francis r. skenandore , curtis g. berkey , and donald juneau filed a brief for the stockbridgemunsee indian community et al. as amici curiae.
class ii gaming is more extensively defined to include bingo , games similar to bingo , nonbanking card games not illegal under the laws of the state , and card games actually operated in particular states prior to the passage of the act. see 2703 ( 7 ) . banking card games , electronic games of chance , and slot machines are expressly excluded from the scope of class ii gaming. 2703 ( b ) . the act allows class ii gaming where the state " permits such gaming for any purpose by any person , organization or entity , " and the " governing body of the indian tribe adopts an ordinance or resolution which is approved by the chairman " of the national indian gaming commission. 2710 ( b ) ( 1 ) . regulation of class ii gaming contemplates a federal role , but places primary emphasis on tribal selfregulation. see 2710 ( c ) ( 3 ) - ( 6 ) .
( ii ) in any action described in subparagraph ( a ) ( i ) , upon the introduction of evidence by an indian tribe that
" ( i ) a tribal - state compact has not been entered into under paragraph ( 3 ) , and
" ( ii ) the state did not respond to the request of the indian tribe to negotiate such a compact or did not respond to such request in good faith , the burden of proof shall be upon the state to prove that the state has negotiated with the indian tribe in good faith to conclude a tribal - state compact governing the conduct of gaming activities.
" ( iii ) if , in any action described in subparagraph ( a ) ( i ) , the court finds that the state has failed to negotiate in good faith with the indian tribe to conclude a tribal - state compact governing the conduct of gaming activities , the court shall order the state and the indian tribe to conclude such a compact within a 60 - day period. in determining in such an action whether a state has negotiated in good faith , the court
" ( i ) may take into account the public interest , public safety , criminality , financial integrity , and adverse economic impacts on existing gaming activities , and
" ( ii ) shall consider any demand by the state for direct taxation of the indian tribe or of any indian lands as evidence that the state has not negotiated in good faith.
" ( iv ) if a state and an indian tribe fail to conclude a tribal - state compact . . . within the 60 - day period provided in the order of a court issued under clause ( iii ) , the indian tribe and the state shall each submit to a mediator appointed by the court a proposed compact that represents their last best offer for a compact. the mediator shall select from the two proposed compacts the one which best comports with the terms of this chapter and any other applicable federal law and with the findings and order of the court.
" ( v ) the mediator appointed by the court under clause ( iv ) shall submit to the state and the indian tribe the compact selected by the mediator under clause ( iv ) .
" ( vi ) if a state consents to a proposed compact during the 60 - day period beginning on the date on which the proposed compact is submitted by the mediator to the state under clause ( v ) , the proposed compact shall be treated as a tribal - state compact entered into under paragraph ( 3 ) .
" ( vii ) if the state does not consent during the 60 - day period described in clause ( vi ) to a proposed compact submitted by a mediator under clause ( v ) , the mediator shall notify the secretary and the secretary shall prescribe , in consultation with the indian tribe , procedures
" ( i ) which are consistent with the proposed compact selected by the mediator under clause ( iv ) , the provisions of this chapter , and the relevant provisions of the laws of the state , and
as federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction over cases arising under these federal laws , the majority's conclusion that the eleventh amendment shields states from being sued under them in federal court suggests that persons harmed by state violations of federal copyright , bankruptcy , and antitrust laws have no remedy. see harris & kenny , eleventh amendment jurisprudence after atascadero : the coming clash with antitrust , copyright , and other causes of action over which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction , 37 emory l. j. 645 ( 1988 ) .
congress has the authority to withdraw sovereign immunity in cases not covered by the eleventh amendment under all of its various powers. nothing in hans is to the contrary. as the passage quoted above demonstrates , hans merely concluded that congress , in enacting the judiciary act of 1875 , did not manifest a desire to withdraw state sovereign immunity with sufficient clarity to overcome the countervailing presumption. therefore , i rely only on the distinction between a statute that clearly directs federal courts to entertain suits against states , such as the one before us here , and a statute that does not , such as the judiciary act of 1875. in light of our repeated application of a clear - statement rule in eleventh amendment cases , from hans onward , i would be surprised to learn that such a distinction is too thin to be acceptable.
" it is not necessary that we should enter upon an examination of the reason or the expediency of the rule which exempts a sovereign state from prosecution in a court of justice at the suit of individuals. this is fully discussed by writers on public law. it is enough for us to declare its existence. " id. , at 21. so it is today.
moreover , in this case , there is ample evidence contradicting the " shock of surprise " thesis. contrary to monaco `s suggestion , the eleventh amendment was not " at once proposed and adopted. " congress was in session when chisholm was decided , and a constitutional amendment in response was proposed two days later , but congress never acted on it , and in fact it was not until two years after chisholm was handed down that an amendment was ratified. see gibbons , the eleventh amendment and state sovereign immunity : a reinterpretation , 83 colum. l. rev. 1889 , 1926 - 1927 ( 1983 ) .
" as it was not the eleventh amendment by its terms which justified the result in hans , it is not the tenth amendment by its terms that prohibits congressional action which sets a mandatory ceiling on the wages of all state employees. both amendments are simply examples of the understanding of those who drafted and ratified the constitution that the states were sovereign in many respects , and that although their legislative authority could be superseded by congress in many areas where congress was competent to act , congress was nonetheless not free to deal with a state as if it were just another individual or business enterprise subject to regulation. " id. , at 556 - 557 ( dissenting opinion ) .
connecticut , which did not enact any reception statute or constitutional provision , adopted the common law by judicial decision insofar as it was appropriate for local conditions. see 1 powell & rohan , supra , 52 , at 140 - 141 , and n. 77 ; hall , 4 vand. l. rev. , at 800 ; fitch v. brainerd , 2 day 163 ( conn. 1805 ) . maryland's position appears to have been articulated in an oath prescribed by the assembly in 1728 for justices of the provincial court. the oath required that the justices act " according to the laws , customs , and directions of the acts of assembly of this province ; and where they are silent , according to the laws , statutes , and reasonable customs of england , as have been used and practiced in this province. . . . " m. andrews , history of maryland 227 ( 1929 ) . finally , although pennsylvania's reception statute did not state that the common law could be altered by legislative enactment in so many words , it may be read as assuming the primacy of legislative enactments , see 9 statutes at large of pennsylvania 29 - 30 ( mitchell & flanders eds. 1903 ) ( act of jan. 28 , 1777 ) ( declaring prior acts of the general assembly to still be in force , as well as " the common law and such of the statute laws of england as have heretofore been in force in the said province . . . " ) , and the state assembly seems to have believed it had the power to depart from common law even prior to independence. see warren , history of the american bar , at 103 ; cf. kirk v. dean , 2 binn. 341 , 345 ( pa. 1810 ) ( interpreting the state constitution as permitting departures from common - law rules where local circumstances required it ) .