it's been months , it's been too long , long
baby , you know
fuck what you're doing now , quit doing that right now , baby i
got better things for you to do , got better things for you to see
got a better place for you to live , and a better place for you and me , oh baby i'm honest
running through the city and you know that i'm on it
baby , would you fuck with me ? fuck with me , fuck with me
baby , would you fuck with me ? fuck with me , fuck with me
fuck with me
ready or not baby , here i come
sorry i didn't get that your drunk
it's 3 a.m. and i know
you're on your way home from somewhere that's poppin'
i know you've been dropping
" ah naw , naw , bands will make her dance , bands will make her dance "
i was so unfair , baby aaah
you can go and make her right , two don't make no right
fuck that baby girl , three wrongs don't make no right
four wrongs don't make no song
five wrongs gonna make it long
six gonna make too long
seven gonna make it right , ohhh
fuck with me , fuck with me
do you fuck with me ? ohhh
baby , do you fuck with me ?
ohhh , ohhh , baby , baby , baby , do you fuck with me ?
huhhh , huuuh , yea , yea
yea , ye
i care about jahron
no one cares for partynextdoor
turn you phone off and turn into jahron
and love me , please
what ?
i don't wanna hurt you , can you please...
you don't wanna hurt me ?
yes !
now i'm on flexin' , dealing with possesion
young nigga , young nigga fall in love real quick
lost that love real quick , mama made me deal with it
models over 21 , plenty bitches , plenty summers
told you i got plenty summers , mama still tripping out
buy my mom a bigger house , couldn't be a nigga house , damn
looking for a real bitch , looking for a real one
probably gon' steal one , oh
riding with the go getters , riding with intentions
we don't want intentions , since there is more money
then you know there is more protection
got a little bad bitch on my arm
cause it's never bad for my reflection
you know i need that good weed , good sex , good neck , et cetera
hoes leave , hoes call and hoes trifling , god bless it
bad bitches sitting and they mix sound good
make it sound good
snakes was in the garden and it's not our good
cause the time's good
i ain't gotta preach to ya' , nothing like a leech nigga
i ain't got a leash to ya'
omo i'm proud of it , sitting on the cloud of it
probably need to sell it like clicquot
my ego is bigger than your ego , get rich off this , dirty contradicting nigga couldn't piss this shit
my bitch 5'5 " waist 33
only white rice , raw fish , seaweed
sushi in the ritz but she swiss though
cause you know they like their chocolate with a kiss though
can't believe she out here calling wi - fi , " wee - fee "
but her mama got an ass , she a peace treaty
only now how to move fast , she 3g
and you'll never get a fast one , i'm too deep
party no pg nigga
huh huh , yea , yea , yea , yea
party no pg , nigga
party no pg , nigga
party no pg