when it was the seven hundred and seventy - ninth night ,
when it was the seven hundred and eightieth night ,
when it was the seven hundred and eighty - first night ,
she pursued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when hasan the goldsmith ate the bit of sweetmeat given to him by the ajami and fell fainting to the ground , the persian rejoiced exceedingly and cried , " this many a year have i sought thee and now i have found thee ! " then he girt himself and pinioned hasan's arms and binding his feet to his hands laid him in a chest , which he emptied to that end and locked it upon him. moreover , he cleared another chest and laying therein all hasan's valuables , together with the piece of the first gold - lump and the second ingot which he had made locked it with a padlock. then he ran to the market and fetching a porter , took up the two chests and made off with them to a place within sight of the city , where he set them down on the sea - shore , hard by a vessel at anchor there. now this craft had been freighted and fitted out by the persian and her master was awaiting him ; so , when the crew saw him , they came to him and bore the two chests on board. then the persian called out to the rais or captain , saying , " up and let us be off , for i have done my desire and won my wish. " so the skipper sang out to the sailors , saying , " weigh anchor and set sail ! " and the ship put out to sea with a fair wind. so far concerning the persian ; but as regards hasan's mother , she awaited him till supper - time but heard neither sound nor news of him ; so she went to the house and finding it thrown open , entered and saw none therein and missed the two chests and their valuables ; wherefore she knew that her son was lost and that doom had overtaken him ; and she buffeted her face and rent her raiment crying out and wailing and saying , " alas , my son , ah ! alas , the fruit of my vitals , ah ! " and she recited these couplets ,
" my patience fails me and grows anxiety ; * and with your absence
&nbsp growth of grief i see.
by allah , patience went what time ye went ! * loss of all hope how
&nbsp suffer patiently ?
when lost my loved one how can' joy i sleep ? * who shall enjoy
&nbsp such life of low degree ?
thou 'rt gone and , desolating house and home , * hast fouled the
&nbsp fount erst flowed from foulness free :
thou wast my fame , my grace 'mid folk , my stay ; * mine aid wast
&nbsp thou in all adversity !
perish the day , when from mine eyes they bore * my friend , till
&nbsp sight i thy return to me ! "
and she ceased not to weep and wail till the dawn , when the neighbours came in to her and asked her of her son , and she told them what had befallen him with the persian , assured that she should never , never see him again. then she went round about the house , weeping , and wending she espied two lines written upon the wall ; so she sent for a scholar , who read them to her ; and they were these ,
" leyla's phantom came by night , when drowsiness had overcome me ,
&nbsp towards morning while my companions were sleeping in the
&nbsp desert ,
but when we awoke to behold the nightly phantom , i saw the air
when hasan's mother heard these lines , she shrieked and said , " yes , o my son ! indeed , the house is desolate and the visitation - place is distant ! " then the neighbours took leave of her and after they had prayed that she might be vouchsafed patience and speedy reunion with her son , went away ; but she ceased not to weep all watches of the night and tides of the day and she built amiddlemost the house a tomb whereon she let write hasan's name and the date of his loss , and thenceforward she quitted it not , but made a habit of incessantly biding thereby night and day. such was her case ; but touching her son hasan and the ajami , this persian was a magian , who hated moslems with exceeding hatred and destroyed all who fell into his power. he was a lewd and filthy villain , a hankerer after alchemy , an astrologer and a hunter of hidden hoards , such an one as he of whom quoth the poet ,
" a dog , dog - fathered , by dog - grandsire bred ; * no good in dog
&nbsp from dog race issued :
e'en for a gnat no resting - place gives he * who is composed of
when it was the seven hundred and eighty - second night ,
" in patience , o my god , thy doom forecast * i'll bear , an thereby
&nbsp come thy grace at last :
they've dealt us wrong , transgressed and ordered ill ; * haply thy
&nbsp grace shall pardon what is past. "
when it was the seven hundred and eighty - third night ,
" consider but thy lord , his work shall bring * comfort to thee ,
&nbsp with quick relief and near :
despair not when thou sufferest sorest bane : * in bane how many
&nbsp blessed boons appear ! "
" when god upon a man possessed of reasoning , hearing and sight
&nbsp his will in aught to pass would bring ,
he stops his ears and blinds his eyes and draws his wit , from
&nbsp him , as one draws out the hairs to paste that cling ;
till , his decrees fulfilled , he gives him back his wit , that
&nbsp therewithal he may receive admonishing.
so say thou not of aught that haps , 'how happened it ? ' for fate
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the seven hundred and eighty - fourth night ,
when it was the seven hundred and eighty - fifth night ,
" the wide plain is narrowed before these eyes * and the landscape
&nbsp troubles this heart of mine.
since my friends went forth , by the loss of them * joy fled and
&nbsp these eyelids rail floods of brine :
sleep shunned these eyeballs for parting woe * and my mind is
&nbsp worn with sore pain and pine :
would i wot an time shall rejoin our lots * and the joys of love
&nbsp with night - talk combine. "
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the seven hundred and eighty - sixth night ,
" when i took up her shift and discovered the terrace - roof of her
&nbsp kaze , i found it as strait as my humour or eke my worldly
&nbsp ways :
so i thrust it , incontinent , in , halfway , and she heaved a sigh.
&nbsp 'for what dost thou sigh ? ' quoth i. 'for the rest of it
&nbsp sure , ' she says. "
" a maiden 'twas , the dresser's art had decked with cunning
&nbsp sleight ;
the sun thou 'd'st say had robbed her cheek and shone with
&nbsp borrowed light.
she came to us apparelled fair in under vest of green ,
like as the ripe pomegranate hides beneath its leafy screen ;
and when we asked her what might be the name of what she wore ,
she answered in a quaint reply that double meaning bore :
the desert's heart we penetrate in such apparel dressed ,
and pierce - heart therefore is the name by which we call the
&nbsp vest. "
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the seven hundred and eighty - seventh night ,
" her lip - dews rival honey - sweets , that sweet virginity ; *
&nbsp keener than hindi scymitar the glance she casts at thee :
she shames the bending bough of bán with graceful movement slow *
&nbsp and as she smiles her teeth appear with leven's brilliancy :
when i compared with rose a - bloom the tintage of her cheeks , *
&nbsp she laughed in scorn and cried , 'whoso compares with rosery
my hue and breasts , granados terms , is there no shame in him ? *
&nbsp how should pomegranates bear on bough such fruit in form or
&nbsp blee ?
now by my beauty and mine eyes and heart and eke by heaven *
&nbsp of favours mine and by the hell of my unclemency ,
they say 'she is a garden - rose in very pride of bloom' ; *
&nbsp and yet no rose can ape my cheek nor branch my symmetry !
if any garden own a thing which unto me is like , *
&nbsp what then is that he comes to crave of me and only me ? " '
they ceased not to laugh and play , whilst hasan stood still a - watching them , forgetting meat and drink , till near the hour of mid - afternoon prayer , when the beauty , the chief damsel , said to her mates , " o kings' daughters , it waxeth late and our land is afar and we are weary of this stead. come , therefore , let us depart to our own place. " so they all arose and donned their feather vests , and becoming birds as they were before , flew away all together , with the chief lady in their midst. then , hasan , despairing of their return , would have arisen and gone down into the palace but could not move or even stand ; wherefore the tears ran down his cheeks and passion was sore on him and he recited these couplets ,
" may god deny me boon of troth if i * after your absence sweets
&nbsp of slumber know :
yea ; since that sev'rance never close mine eyes , * nor rest
&nbsp repose me since departed you !
'twould seem as though you saw me in your sleep ; * would heaven
&nbsp the dreams of sleep were real - true !
indeed i dote on sleep though needed not , * for sleep may bring
&nbsp me that dear form to view. "
then hasan walked on , little by little , heeding not the way he went , till he reached the foot of the stairs , whence he dragged himself to his own chamber ; then he entered and shutting the door , lay sick eating not nor drinking and drowned in the sea of his solitude. he spent the night thus , weeping and bemoaning himself , till the morning , and when it morrowed he repeated these couplets ,
" the birds took flight at eve and winged their way ; * and sinless
&nbsp he who died of love's death - blow.
i'll keep my love - tale secret while i can * but , an desire
&nbsp prevail , its needs must show :
night brought me nightly vision , bright as dawn ; * while nights
&nbsp of my desire lack morning - glow.
&nbsp of love on me their plaything blow :
free i bestow my tears , my wealth , my heart * my wit , my sprite :
&nbsp most gain who most bestow !
the worst of woes and banes is enmity * beautiful maidens deal us
&nbsp to our woe.
favour they say's forbidden to the fair * and shedding lovers'
&nbsp blood their laws allow ;
that naught can love - sicks do but lavish soul , * and stake in
i cry in longing ardour for my love : * lover can only weep and
&nbsp wail love - lowe. "
when the sun rose he opened the door , went forth of the chamber and mounted to the stead where he was before : then he sat down facing the pavilion and awaited the return of the birds till nightfall ; but they returned not ; wherefore he wept till he fell to the ground in a fainting - fit. when he came to after his swoon , he dragged himself down the stairs to his chamber ; and indeed , the darkness was come and straitened upon him was the whole world and he ceased not to weep and wail himself through the livelong night , till the day broke and the sun rained over hill and dale its rays serene. he ate not nor drank nor slept , nor was there any rest for him ; but by day he was distracted and by night distressed , with sleeplessness delirious and drunken with melancholy thought and excess of love - longing. and he repeated the verses of the love - distraught poet ,
" o thou who shamest sun in morning sheen * the branch
&nbsp confounding , yet with nescience blest ;
would heaven i wot an time shall bring return * and quench the
&nbsp fires which flame unmanifest , —
bring us together in a close embrace , * thy cheek upon my cheek ,
&nbsp thy breast abreast !
who saith , in love dwells sweetness ? when in love * are bitterer
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the seven hundred and eighty - eighty night ,
" lover , when parted from the thing he loves , * has naught save
&nbsp weary woe and bane to bear.
inside is sickness , outside living lowe , * his first is fancy and
&nbsp his last despair. "
when his sister heard this , she marvelled at his eloquence and loquent speech and his readiness at answering her in verse and said to him , " o my brother , when didst thou fall into this thy case and what hath betided thee , that i find thee speaking in song and shedding tears that throng ? allah upon thee , o my brother , and by the honest love which is between us , tell me what aileth thee and discover to me thy secret , nor conceal from me aught of that which hath befallen thee in our absence ; for my breast is straitened and my life is troubled because of thee. " he sighed and railed tears like rain , after which he said , " i fear , o my sister , if i tell thee , that thou wilt not aid me to win my wish but wilt leave me to die wretchedly in mine anguish. " she replied , " no , by allah , o my brother , i will not abandon thee , though it cost me my life ! " so he told her all that had befallen him , and that the cause of his distress and affliction was the passion he had conceived for the young lady whom he had seen when he opened the forbidden door ; and how he had not tasted meat nor drink for ten days past. then he wept with sore weeping and recited these couplets ,
" restore my heart as 'twas within my breast , * let mine eyes
&nbsp sleep again , then fly fro' me.
deem ye the nights have had the might to change * love's vow ?
&nbsp who changeth may he never be ! "
when it was the seven hundred and eighty - ninth night ,
when it was the seven hundred and ninetieth night ,
when it was the seven hundred and ninety - first night ,
" thy shape's temptation , eyes as houri's fain * and sheddeth
my glance portrayed thy glorious portraiture : * rubies one - half
&nbsp and gems the third part were :
musk made a fifth : a sixth was ambergris * the sixth a pearl but
&nbsp pearl without compare.
eve never bare a daughter evening thee * nor breathes thy like in
an thou would torture me 'tis wont of love * and if thou pardon
&nbsp 'tis thy choice i swear :
then , o world bright'ner and o end of wish ! * loss of thy charms
&nbsp who could in patience bear ? "
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the seven hundred and ninety - second night ,
" indeed afflicted sore are we and all distraught , * seeking for
&nbsp union ; yet we find no way :
and love's calamities upon us grow * and love though light with
&nbsp heaviest weight doth weigh. "
his wife repeated to the princesses what he said and they , hearing the verses , had pity on him and said to him , " in allah's name , do as thou wilt , for we may not hinder thee from visiting thy mother ; nay , we will help thee to thy wish by what means we may. but it behoveth that thou desert us not , but visit us , though it be only once a year. " and he answered , " to hear is to obey : be your behest on my head and eyes ! " then they arose forthright and making him ready victual for the voyage , equipped the bride for him with raiment and ornaments and everything of price , such as defy description , and they bestowed on him gifts and presents which pens of ready writers lack power to set forth. then they beat the magical kettle - drum and up came the dromedaries from all sides. they chose of them such as could carry all the gear they had prepared ; amongst the rest five - and - twenty chests of gold and fifty of silver ; and , mounting hasan and his bride on others , rode with them three days , wherein they accomplished a march of three months. then they bade them farewell and addressed themselves to return ; whereupon his sister , the youngest damsel , threw herself on hasan's neck and wept till she fainted. when she came to herself , she repeated these two couplets ,
" ne'er dawn the severance - day on any wise * that robs of sleep
&nbsp these heavy - lidded eyes.
from us and thee it hath fair union torn * it wastes our force
&nbsp and makes our forms its prize. "
her verses finished she farewelled him , straitly charging him , whenas he should have come to his native land and have foregathered with his mother and set his heart at ease , to fail not of visiting her once in every six months and saying , " if aught grieve thee or thou fear aught of vexation , beat the magian's kettle - drum , whereupon the dromedaries shall come to thee ; and do thou mount and return to us and persist not in staying away. " he swore thus to do and conjured them to go home. so they returned to the palace , mourning for their separation from him , especially the youngest , with whom no rest would stay nor would patience her call obey , but she wept night and day. thus it was with them ; but as regards hasan and his wife , they fared on by day and night over plain and desert site and valley and stony heights through noon - tide glare and dawn's soft light ; and allah decreed them safety , so that they reached bassorah - city without hindrance and made their camels kneel at the door of his house. hasan then dismissed the dromedaries and , going up to the door to open it , heard his mother weeping and in a faint strain , from a heart worn with parting - pain and on fire with consuming bane , reciting these couplets ,
" how shall he taste of sleep who lacks repose * who wakes a - night
&nbsp when all in slumber wone ?
he owned wealth and family and fame * yet fared from house and
&nbsp home an exile lone :
&nbsp longing , mightier ne'er was known :
passion hath seized him , passion mastered him ; * yet is he
&nbsp constant while he maketh moan :
his case for love proclaimeth aye that he , * ( as prove his tears )
&nbsp is wretched , woebegone. "
when hasan heard his mother weeping and wailing he wept also and knocked at the door a loud knock. quoth she , " who is at the door ? " ; and quoth he , " open ! " whereupon she opened the door and knowing him at first sight fell down in a fainting fit ; but he ceased not to tend her till she came to herself , when he embraced her and she embraced him and kissed him , whilst his wife looked on mother and son. then he carried his goods and gear into the house , whilst his mother , for that her heart was comforted and allah had reunited her with her son versified with these couplets ,
" fortune had ruth upon my plight * pitied my long long bane and
&nbsp blight ;
gave me what i would liefest sight ; * and set me free from all
&nbsp afright.
so pardon i the sin that sin * nèd she in days evanisht quite ;
e'en to the sin she sinned when she * bleached my hair - parting
&nbsp silvern white. "
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the seven hundred and ninety - third night ,
when it was the seven hundred and ninety - fourth night ,
" i ever ask for news of you from whatso breezes pass * and never any but yourselves can pass across my mind. "
when it was the seven hundred and ninety - fifth night ,
when it was the seven hundred and ninety - sixth night ,
" o who bast quitted these abodes and faredst lief and light * to
&nbsp other objects of thy love with fain and fastest flight !
deem'st thou that 'bided i with you in solace and in joy * or
&nbsp that my days amid you all were clear of bane and blight ?
when i was captive ta'en of love and snarèd in his snare , * he
&nbsp made of love my prison and he fared fro' me forthright :
so when my fear was hidden , he made sure that ne'er should i *
&nbsp pray to the one , th' omnipotent to render me my right :
he charged his mother keep the secret with all the care she
&nbsp could , * in closet shut and treated me with enemy's
&nbsp despight :
but i o'erheard their words and held them fast in memory * and
&nbsp hoped for fortune fair and weal and blessings infinite :
my faring to the hammam - bath then proved to me the means * of
&nbsp making minds of folk to be confounded at my sight :
wondered the bride of al - rashid to see my brilliancy * when she
&nbsp beheld me right and left with all of beauty dight :
then quoth i , 'o our caliph's wife , i once was wont to own * a
&nbsp dress of feathers rich and rare that did the eyes delight :
an it were now on me thou shouldst indeed see wondrous things *
&nbsp that would efface all sorrows and disperse all sores of
&nbsp sprite : '
then deigned our caliph's bride to cry , 'where is that dress of
&nbsp thine ? ' * and i replied , 'in house of him kept darkling as
&nbsp the night.'
so down upon it pounced masrúr and brought it unto her , * and
&nbsp when 'twas there each feather cast a ray of beaming light :
therewith i took it from his hand and opened it straightway * and
&nbsp saw its plumèd bosom and its buttons pleased my sight :
and so i clad myself therein and took with me my babes ; * and
&nbsp spread my wings and flew away with all my main and might ;
saying , 'o husband's mother mine tell him when cometh he * an
&nbsp ever wouldest meet her thou from house and home must flee. " '
" your faring on the parting - day drew many a tear fro' me , * who
&nbsp must your flying from the home long mourn in misery :
and cried i for the parting pang in anguish likest fire * and
&nbsp tear - floods chafed mine eyelids sore that ne'er of tears
&nbsp were free ;
'yes , this is severance , ah , shall we e'er oy return of you ? *
&nbsp for your departure hath deprived my power of privacy ! '
ah , would they had returned to me in covenant of faith * an they
&nbsp return perhaps restore of past these eyne may see. "
then arising she dug in the house three graves and betook herself to them with weeping all whiles of the day and watches of the night ; and when her son's absence was longsome upon her and grief and yearning and unquiet waxed upon her , she recited these couplets ,
" deep in mine eye - balls ever dwells the phantom - form of thee * my
&nbsp heart when throbbing or at rest holds fast thy memory :
and love of thee doth never cease to course within my breast , *
&nbsp as course the juices in the fruits which deck the branchy
&nbsp tree :
and every day i see thee not my bosom straightened is * and even
&nbsp censurers excuse the woes in me they see :
o thou whose love hath gotten hold the foremost in the heart * of
&nbsp me whose fondness is excelled by mine insanity :
fear the compassionate in my case and some compassion show ! *
&nbsp love of thee makes me taste of death in bitterest pungency. "
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the seven hundred and ninety - seventh night ,
she continued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that hasan's mother bewept through the watches of the night and the whiles of the day her separation from her son and his wife and children. on this wise it fared with her ; but as regards hasan , when he came to the princesses , they conjured him to tarry with them three months , after which long sojourn they gave him five loads of gold and the like of silver and one load of victual and accompanied him on his homeward way till he conjured them to return , whereupon they farewelled him with an embrace ; but the youngest came up to him , to bid him adieu and clasping his neck wept till she fainted. then she recited these two couplets ,
" when shall the severance - fire be quenched by union , love , with
&nbsp you ? * when shall i win my wish of you and days that were
&nbsp renew ?
the parting - day affrighted me and wrought me dire dismay * and
&nbsp doubleth woe , o master mine , by the sad word 'adieu.' "
anon came forward the second princess and embraced him and recited these two couplets ,
" farewelling thee indeed is like to bidding life farewell * and
&nbsp sight :
thine absence is a flaming fire which burneth up my heart * and
presently came forward the third and embraced him and recited these two couplets ,
" we left not taking leave of thee ( when bound to other goal ) *
&nbsp from aught of ill intention or from weariness and dole :
thou art my soul , my very soul , the only soul of me : * and how
after her came forward the fourth and embraced him and recited these two couplets ,
" nought garred me weep save where and when of severance spake he ,
&nbsp * persisting in his cruel will with sore persistency :
look at this pearl - like ornament i've hung upon mine ear : * 'tis
&nbsp of the tears of me compact , this choicest jewelry ! "
in her turn came forward the fifth and embraced him and recited these two couplets ,
" ah , fare thee not ; for i've no force thy faring to endure , * nor
&nbsp e'en to say the word farewell before my friend is sped :
nor any patience to support the days of severance , * nor any
&nbsp tears on ruined house and wasted home to shed. "
next came the sixth and embraced him and recited these two couplets ,
" i cried , as the camels went off with them , * and love pained my
&nbsp vitals with sorest pain :
had i a king who would lend me rule * i'd seize every ship that
&nbsp dares sail the main. "
lastly came forward the seventh and embraced him and recited these couplets ,
" when thou seest parting , be patient still , * nor let foreign
&nbsp parts deal thy soul affright :
but abide , expecting a swift return , * for all hearts hold
&nbsp parting in sore despight. "
and eke these two couplets ,
" indeed i'm heartbroken to see thee start , * nor can i farewell
&nbsp thee ere thou depart ;
allah wotteth i left not to say adieu * save for fear that saying
&nbsp would melt your heart. "
hasan also wept for parting from them , till he swooned , and repeated these couplets ,
" indeed , ran my tears on the severance - day * like pearls i
&nbsp threaded in necklace - way
the cameleer drove his camels with song * but i lost heart ,
&nbsp patience and strength and stay :
i bade them farewell and retired in grief * from tryst - place and
&nbsp camp where my dearlings lay :
i turned me unknowing the way nor joyed * my soul , but in hopes
&nbsp to return some day.
oh listen , my friend , to the words of love * god forbid thy heart
&nbsp forget all i say !
o my soul when thou partest wi' them , part too * with all joys of
&nbsp life nor for living pray ! "
" folk have made moan of passion before me , of past years , * and
live and dead for absence have suffered pains and fears ;
but that within my bosom i harbour , with mine eyes * i've never
seen the like of nor heard with mine ears. "
then finishing his verses he bared his brand and coming up to his mother , said to her , " except thou tell me the truth of the case , i will strike off thy head and kill myself. " she replied , " o my son , do not such deed : put up thy sword and sit down , till i tell thee what hath passed. " so he sheathed his scymitar and sat by her side , whilst she recounted to him all that had happened in his absence from first to last , adding , " o my son , but that i saw her weep in her longing for the bath and feared that she would go and complain to thee on thy return , and thou wouldst be wroth with me. i had never carried her thither ; and were it not that the lady zubaydah was wroth with me and took the key from me by force , i had never brought out the feather - dress , though i died for it. but thou knowest , o my son , that no hand may measure length with that of the caliphate. when they brought her the dress , she took it and turned it over , fancying that somewhat might be lost thereof , but she found it uninjured ; wherefore she rejoiced and making her children fast to her waist , donned the feather - vest , after the lady zubaydah had pulled off to her all that was upon herself and clad her therein , in honour of her and because of her beauty. no sooner had she donned the dress than she shook and becoming a bird , promenaded about the palace , whilst all who were present gazed at her and marvelled at her beauty and loveliness. then she flew up to the palace roof and perching thereon , looked at me and said : 'whenas thy son cometh to thee and the nights of separation upon him longsome shall be and he craveth reunion and meeting to see and whenas the breezes of love and longing shake him dolefully let him leave his native land and journey to the islands of wak and seek me.' this , then , is her story and what befel in thine absence. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the seven hundred and ninety - eighth night ,
" pause ye and see his sorry state since when ye fain withdrew ; *
&nbsp haply , when wrought your cruelty , you'll have the grace to
&nbsp rue :
for an ye look on him , you'll doubt of him by sickness - stress *
&nbsp as though , by allah , he were one before ye never knew.
he dies for nothing save for love of you , and he would be *
&nbsp numbered amid the dead did not he moan and groan for you.
and deem not pangs of severance sit all lightly on his soul ; *
&nbsp 'tis heavy load on lover - wight ; 'twere lighter an ye slew. "
" beareth for love a burden sore this soul of me , * could break a
&nbsp mortal's back however strong that be ;
i am distraught to see my case and languor grows * making my day
&nbsp and night indifferent in degree :
i own to having dreaded death before this day : * this day i hold
&nbsp my death mine only remedy. "
and hasan ceased not to do thus till daybreak , when his eyes closed and he saw in a dream his wife grief - full and repentant for that which she had done. so he started up from sleep crying out and reciting these two couplets ,
" their image bides with me , ne'er quits me , ne'er shall fly ; *
&nbsp but holds within my heart most honourable stead ;
but for reunion - hope , i'd see me die forthright , * and but for
&nbsp phantom - form of thee my sleep had fled. "
and as morning morrowed he redoubled his lamentations. he abode weeping - eyed and heavy - hearted , wakeful by night and eating little , for a whole month , at the end of which he bethought him to repair to his sisters and take counsel with them in the matter of his wife , so haply they might help him to regain her. accordingly he summoned the dromedaries and loading fifty of them with rarities of al - irak , committed the house to his mother's care and deposited all his goods in safe keeping , except some few he left at home. then he mounted one of the beasts and set out on his journey single handed , intent upon obtaining aidance from the princesses , and he stayed not till he reached the palace of the mountain of clouds , when he went in to the damsels and gave them the presents in which they rejoiced. then they wished him joy of his safety and said to him , " o our brother , what can ail thee to come again so soon , seeing thou wast with us but two months since ? " whereupon he wept and improvised these couplets ,
" my soul for loss of lover sped i sight ; * nor life enjoying
&nbsp neither life's delight :
my case is one whose cure is all unknown ; * can any cure the sick
&nbsp but doctor wight ?
o who hast reft my sleep - joys , leaving me * to ask the breeze
&nbsp that blew from that fair site , —
blew from my lover's land ( the land that owns * those charms so
&nbsp sore a grief in soul excite ) ,
'o breeze , that visitest her land , perhaps * breathing her scent ,
&nbsp thou mayst revive my sprite ! ' "
and when he ended his verse he gave a great cry and fell down in a fainting - fit. the princesses sat round him , weeping over him , till he recovered and repeated these two couplets ,
" haply and happily may fortune bend her rein * bringing my love ,
fortune may prosper me , supply mine every want , * and bring a
&nbsp blessing where before were ban and bane. "
then he wept till he fainted again , and presently coming to himself recited the two following couplets ,
" my wish , mine illness , mine unease ! by allah , own * art thou
&nbsp content ? then i in love contented wone !
dost thou forsake me thus sans crime or sin * meet me in ruth , i
&nbsp pray , and be our parting gone. "
then he wept till he swooned away once more and when he revived he repeated these couplets ,
" sleep fled me , by my side wake ever shows * and hoard of
&nbsp tear - drops from these eyne aye flows ;
for love they weep with beads cornelian - like * and growth of
&nbsp distance greater dolence grows :
lit up my longing , o my love , in me * flames burning 'neath my
&nbsp ribs with fiery throes !
remembering thee a tear i never shed * but in it thunder roars
&nbsp and leven glows. "
then he wept till he fainted away a fourth time , and presently recovering , recited these couplets ,
" ah ! for lowe of love and longing suffer ye as suffer we ? * say ,
&nbsp as pine we and as yearn we for you are pining ye ?
allah do the death of love , what a bitter draught is his ! * would
&nbsp i wot of love what plans and what projects nurseth he !
your faces radiant - fair though afar from me they shine , * are
&nbsp mirrored in our eyes whatsoever the distance be ;
my heart must ever dwell on the memories of your tribe ; * and the
&nbsp turtle - dove reneweth all as oft as moaneth she :
ho thou dove , who passest night - tide in calling on thy fere , *
&nbsp thou doublest my repine , bringing grief for company ;
and leavest thou mine eyelids with weeping unfulfilled * for the
&nbsp dearlings who departed , whom we never more may see :
i melt for the thought of you at every time and hour , * and i
&nbsp long for you when night showeth cheek of blackest blee. "
now when his sister heard these words and saw his condition and how he lay fainting on the floor , she screamed and beat her face and the other princesses hearing her scream came out and learning his misfortune and the transport of love and longing and the passion and distraction that possessed him they questioned him of his case. he wept and told them what had befallen in his absence and how his wife had taken flight with her children , wherefore they grieved for him and asked him what she said at leave - taking. answered he , " o my sisters , she said to my mother , 'tell thy son , whenas he cometh to thee and the nights of sever - ance upon him longsome shall be and he craveth reunion and meeting to see , and whenas the winds of love and longing shake him dolefully , let him fare in the islands of wak to me. " when they heard his words they signed one to other with their eyes and shook their heads , and each looked at her sister , whilst hasan looked at them all. then they bowed their heads groundwards and bethought themselves awhile ; after which they raised their heads and said , " there is no majesty and there is no might save in allah , the glorious , the great ! " ; presently adding , " put forth thy hand to heaven and when thou reach thither , then shalt thou win to thy wife.—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the seven hundred and ninety - ninth night ,
she resumed , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when the princesses said to hasan , " put forth thy hand to heaven and when thou reach thither , then shalt thou win to wife and children , " thereat the tears ran down his cheeks like rain and wet his clothes , and he recited these couplets ,
" pink cheeks and eyes enpupil'd black have dealt me sore
&nbsp despight ; * and whenas wake overpowered sleep my patience
&nbsp fled in fright :
the fair and sleek - limbed maidens hard of heart withal laid waste
&nbsp * my very bones till not a breath is left for man to sight :
houris , who fare with gait of grace as roes o'er sandy - mound : *
&nbsp did allah's saints behold their charms they'd doat thereon
&nbsp forthright ;
faring as fares the garden breeze that bloweth in the dawn. * for
&nbsp love of them a sore unrest and troubles rack my sprite :
i hung my hopes upon a maid , a loveling fair of them , * for whom
&nbsp my heart still burns with lowe in lazá - hell they light ; —
a       &nbsp dearling soft of sides and haught and graceful in her gait , *
her grace is white as morning , but her hair is black as
&nbsp night :
she stirreth me ! but ah , how many heroes have her cheeks *
&nbsp upstirred for love , and eke her eyes that mingle black and
&nbsp white. "
then he wept , whilst the princesses wept for his weeping , and they were moved to compassion and jealousy for him. so they fell to comforting him and exhorting him to patience and offering up prayers for his reunion with his wife ; whilst his sister said to him , " o my brother , be of good cheer and keep thine eyes cool and clear and be patient ; so shalt thou win thy will ; for whoso hath patience and waiteth , that he seeketh attaineth. patience holdeth the keys of relief and indeed the poet saith ,
'let destiny with slackened rein its course appointed fare ! and
&nbsp lie thou down to sleep by night , with heart devoid of care ;
for 'twixt the closing of an eye and th' opening thereof , god
&nbsp hath it in his power to change a case from foul to
" an i be healed of disease in frame , * i'm unhealed of illness in
&nbsp heart and sprite :
there is no healing disease of love , * save lover and loved one
&nbsp to re - unite. "
then he sat down beside her and she proceeded to talk with him and comfort him and question him of the cause and the manner of his wife's departure. so he told her and she said , " by allah , o my brother , i was minded to bid thee burn the feather - dress , but satan made me forget it. " she ceased not to converse with him and caress him and company with him other ten days , whilst sleep visited him not and he delighted not in food ; and when the case was longsome upon him and unrest waxed in him , he versified with these couplets ,
" a beloved familiar o'erreigns my heart * and allah's ruling
&nbsp reigns evermore :
she hath all the arab's united charms * this gazelle who feeds on
&nbsp my bosom's core.
though my skill and patience for love of her fail , * i weep
&nbsp whilst i wot that 'tis vain to deplore.
the dearling hath twice seven years , as though * she were moon of
when it was the eight hundredth night ,
when it was the eight hundred and first night ,
she continued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that after handing the scroll to hasan , shaykh abd al - kaddus told him what would befal him and said , " whoso self imperilleth doeth himself to death ; but also who ventureth naught advantageth naught. however an thou fear for thy life , cast it not into danger of destruction ; but , an thou fear not , up and do thy will , for i have expounded to thee the whole case. yet shouldest thou be minded to return to thy friends , the elephant is still here and he will carry thee to my nieces , who will restore thee to thy country and return thee to thy home , and allah will vouchsafe thee a better than this girl , of whom thou art enamoured. " hasan answered the shaykh , saying , " and how shall life be sweet to me , except i win my wish ? by allah , i will never turn back , till i regain my beloved or my death overtake me ! " and he wept and recited these couplets ,
" for loss of lover mine and stress of love i dree , * i stood
bewailing self in deep despondency.
longing for him , the spring - camp's dust i kissed and kissed , *
but this bred more of grief and galling reverie.
god guard the gone , who in our hearts must e'er abide * with
nearing woes and joys which still the farther flee.
they say me , 'patience ! ' but they bore it all away : * on
parting - day , and left me naught save tormentry.
and naught affrighted me except the word he said , * 'forget me
not when gone nor drive from memory.'
to whom shall turn i ? hope in whom when you are lost ? * who were
my only hopes and joys and woes of me ?
but ah , the pang of home - return when parting thus ! * how joyed at
seeing me return mine enemy.
then well - away ! this 'twas i guarded me against ! * and ah , thou
an fled for aye my friends i'll not survive the flight ; * yet an
they deign return , oh joy ! oh ecstacy !
never , by allah tears and weeping i'll contain * for loss of you ,
but tears on tears and tears will rain. "
when abd al - kaddus heard his verse he knew that he would not turn back from his desire nor would words have effect on him , and was certified that naught would serve him but he must imperil himself , though it lose him his life. so he said to him , " know , o my son , that the islands of wak are seven islands , wherein is a mighty host , all virgin girls , and the inner isles are peopled by satans and marids and warlocks and various tribesmen of the jinn ; and whoso entereth their land never returneth thence ; at least none hath done so to this day. so , allah upon thee , return presently to thy people , for know that she whom thou seekest is the king's daughter of all these islands : and how canst thou attain to her ? hearken to me , o my son , and haply allah will vouchsafe thee in her stead a better than she. " " o my lord , " answered hasan , though for the love of her i were cut in pieces yet should i but redouble in love and transport ! there is no help but that i enter the wak islands and come to the sight of my wife and children ; and inshallah , i will not return save with her and with them. " said the shaykh , " then nothing will serve thee but thou must make the journey ? " hasan replied " nothing ! and i only ask of thee thy prayers for help and aidance ; so haply allah will reunite me with my wife and children right soon. " then he wept for stress of longing and recited these couplets ,
" you are my wish , of creatures brightest - light * i deem you lief
&nbsp as hearing , fain as sight :
you hold my heart which hath become your home * and since you
&nbsp left me , lords , right sore's my plight :
then think not i have yielded up your love , * your love which set
&nbsp this wretch in fierce affright :
you went and went my joy whenas you went ; * and waned and wax'ed
&nbsp wan the brightest light :
you left me lone to watch the stars in woe : * railing tears
&nbsp likest rain - drops infinite.
thou'rt longsome to the wight , who pining lies * on wake ,
&nbsp moon - gazing through the night ,
o night ! wind ! an thou pass the tribe where they abide * give
&nbsp them my greeting , life is fain of flight.
and tell them somewhat of the pangs i bear : * the loved one
&nbsp kenneth not my case aright. "
then he wept with sore weeping till he fainted away ; and when he came to himself , shaykh abd al - kaddus said to him , " o my son , thou hast a mother ; make her not taste the torment of thy loss. " hasan replied , " by allah , o my lord , i will never return except with my wife , or my death shall overtake me. " and he wept and wailed and recited these couplets ,
" by love's right ! naught of farness thy slave can estrange * nor
&nbsp am i one to fail in my fealty :
i suffer such pains did i tell my case * to folk , they'd cry ,
&nbsp 'madness ! clean witless is he ! '
then ecstasy , love - longing , transport and lowe ! * whose case is
&nbsp such case how shall ever he be ? "
when it was the eight hundred and second night ,
she pursued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that hasan , dismounting from the steed , stood at the cavern - mouth pondering the issue of his case and unknowing what might befal him. he abode standing on the same spot five days with their nights , sleepless , mournful , tearful - eyed ; distracted , perplexed , pondering his severance from home and family , comrades and friends , with weeping eye - lids and heavy heart. then he bethought him of his mother and of what might yet happen to him and of his separation from his wife and children and of all that he had suffered , and he recited these couplets ,
" with you is my heart - cure a heart that goes ; * and from
&nbsp hill - foot of eyelids the tear - rill flows :
and parting and sorrow and exile and dole * and farness from
&nbsp country and throe that o'erthrows :
naught am i save a lover distracted by love , * far parted from
&nbsp loved one and wilted by woes.
and 'tis love that hath brought me such sorrow , say where * is
&nbsp the noble of soul who such sorrow unknows ? "
hardly had hasan made an end of his verses , when out came the shaykh abu al - ruwaysh , a blackamoor and clad in black raiment , and at first sight he knew him by the description that abd al - kaddus had given him. he threw himself at his feet and rubbed his cheeks on them and seizing his skirt , laid it on his head and wept before him. quoth the old man , " what wantest thou , o my son ? " whereupon he put out his hand to him with the letter , and abu al - ruwaysh took it and reentered the cavern , without making him any answer. so hasan sat down at the cave - mouth in his place other five days as he had been bidden , whilst concern grew upon him and terror redoubled on him and restlessness gat hold of him , and he fell to weeping and bemoaning himself for the anguish of estrangement and much watching. and he recited these couplets ,
" glory to him who guides the skies ! * the lover sore in sorrow
&nbsp lies.
who hath not tasted of love's food * knows not what mean its
&nbsp miseries.
did i attempt to stem my tears * rivers of blood would fount and
&nbsp rise.
how many an intimate is hard * of heart , and pains in sorest
&nbsp wise !
an she with me her word would keep , * of tears and sighs i'd fain
&nbsp devise ,
but i'm forgone , rejected quite * ruin on me hath cast her eyes.
at my fell pangs fell wildlings weep * and not a bird for me but
&nbsp cries. "
when it was the eight hundred and third night ,
when it was the eight hundred and fourth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that king hassun spake these words to hasan and charged him as we have related , ending with , " this is all i can do for thee and know that except the lord of heaven had aided thee , thou hadst not come hither ! " the youth wept till he swooned away , and when he recovered , he recited these two couplets ,
" a term decreed my lot i 'spy ; * and , when its days shall end , i
&nbsp die.
though lions fought with me in lair * if time be mine i'd beat
&nbsp them , i ! "
when it was the eight hundred and fifth night ,
" in her cheek - corners nine calamities * wone , and when shown ,
&nbsp each one jehannam is :
hideous the face and favour foulest foul * as cheek of hog ; yea ,
&nbsp 'tis a cesspool phiz. "
and indeed she was like a pied snake or a scald she - wolf. now when the old woman looked at hasan , she marvelled and said , " how came this one to these lands and in which of the ships was he and how arrived he hither in safety ? " and she fell to questioning him of his case and admiring at his arrival , whereupon he fell at her feet and rubbed his face on them and wept till he fainted ; and , when he recovered himself , he recited these couplets ,
" when will time grant we meet , when shall we be * again united
&nbsp after severance stark ?
and i shall win my choicest wish and view ? * blame end and love
&nbsp abide without remark ?
were nile to flow as freely as my tears , * 'twould leave no
&nbsp region but with water - mark :
'twould overthrow hijaz and egypt - land * 'twould deluge syria and
&nbsp 'twould drown irák.
this , o my love , is caused by thy disdain , * be kind and promise
&nbsp meeting fair and fain ! "
when it was the eight hundred and sixth night ,
" a zephyr bloweth from the lover's site ; * and thou canst view me
&nbsp in the saddest plight :
the night of union is as brilliant morn ; * and black the
&nbsp severance - day as blackest night :
farewelling friend is sorrow sorest sore * parting from lover's
&nbsp merest undelight.
i will not blame her harshness save to her , * and 'mid mankind
&nbsp nor friend nor fere i sight :
how can i be consoled for loss of you ? * base censor's blame
&nbsp shall not console my sprite !
o thou in charms unique , unique's my love ; * o peerless thou , my
&nbsp heart hath peerless might !
who maketh semblance that be loveth you * and dreadeth blame is
&nbsp most blame - worthy wight. "
when it was the eight hundred and seventh night ,
" the name of what drave me distraught * hath letters renowned
&nbsp among men :
a four into five multiplied * and a multiplied six into
" o heart , an lover false thee , shun the parting bane * nor to
&nbsp forgetfulness thy thoughts constrain :
be patient ; thou shalt bury all thy foes ; * allah ne'er falseth
&nbsp man of patience fain. "
and this also ,
" an wouldst be life , long safe , vaunt not delight ; * never
&nbsp despair , nor wone o'erjoyed in sprite !
forbear , rejoice not , mourn not o'er thy plight * and in ill day
thereupon the old woman bowed her head groundwards awhile , then , raising it , said , " laud be to the lord , the mighty of award ! indeed i am afflicted with thee , o hasan ! would heaven i had never known thee ! this woman , whom thou describest to me as thy wife , i know by description and i know her to be none other than the eldest daughter of the supreme king , she who ruleth over all the islands of wak. so open both eyes and consider thy case ; and if thou be asleep , awake ; for , if this woman be indeed thy wife , it is impossible for thee ever to obtain her , and though thou come to her , yet couldst thou not avail to her possession , since between thee and her the distance is as that between earth and heaven. wherefore , o my son , return presently and cast not thyself into destruction nor cast me with thee ; for meseemeth thou hast no lot in her ; so return whence thou camest lest our lives be lost. " and she feared for herself and for him. when hasan heard her words , he wept till he fainted and she left not sprinkling water on his face , till he came to himself , when he continued to weep , so that he drenched his dress with tears , for the much cark and care and chagrin which betided him by reason of her words. and indeed he despaired of life and said to the old woman , " o my lady , and how shall i go back , after having come hither ? verily , i thought not thou wouldst forsake me nor fail of the winning of my wish , especially as thou art the commander - in - chief of the army of the girls. " answered shawahl , " o my son , i doubted not but thy wife was a maid of the maids , and had i known she was the king's daughter , i had not suffered thee to come hither nor had i shown the troops to thee , for all the love i bear thee. but now , o my son , thou hast seen all the girls naked ; so tell me which of them pleaseth thee and i will give her to thee , in lieu of thy wife , and do thou put it that thy wife and children are dead and take her and return to thine own country in safety , ere thou fall into the king's hand and i have no means of delivering thee. so , allah upon thee , o my son , hearken unto me. choose thyself one of these damsels , in the stead of yonder woman , and return presently to thy country in safety and cause me not quaff the cup of thine anguish ! for , by allah , thou hast cast thyself into affliction sore and peril galore , wherefrom none may avail to deliver thee evermore ! " but hasan hung down his head and wept with long weeping and recited these couplets ,
" 'blame not ! ' said i to all who blamèd me ; * 'mine eye - lids
&nbsp naught but tears were made to dree : '
the tears that brim these orbs have overflowed * my checks , for
&nbsp lovers and love's cruelty.
leave me to love though waste this form of me ! * for i of love
&nbsp adore the insanity :
and , oh my dearling , passion grows on me * for you—and you , why
&nbsp grudge me clemency ?
you wronged me after swearing troth and plight , * falsed my
&nbsp companionship and turned to flee :
and cup of humbling for your rigours sore * ye made me drain what
&nbsp day departed ye :
then melt , o heart , with longing for their sight * and , o mine
&nbsp eyes , with crowns of tears be dight. "
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and eighth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when the old woman said to hasan , " by allah , o my son , hearken to my words ! choose thee one of these girls in lieu of thy wife and presently return to thy country in safety , " he hung down his head and recited the couplets quoted above. then he wept till he swooned away and shawahl sprinkled water on his face till he revived , when she addressed him , " o my lord , i have no shift left ; because if i carry thee to the city thy life is lost and mine also : for , when the queen cometh to know of this , she will blame me for admitting thee into her lands and islands , whereto none of adam's sons hath access , and will slay me for bringing thee with me and for suffering mortal to look upon the virgins seen by thee in the sea , whom ne'er touched male , neither approached mate. " and hasan sware that he had never looked on them with evil of eye. she resumed , " o my son , hearken to me and return to thy country and i will give thee wealth and treasures and things of price , such as shall suffice thee for all the women in the world. moreover , i will give thee a girl of the best of them , so lend an ear to my words and return presently and imperil not thyself ; indeed i counsel thee with good counsel. " but he wept and rubbed both cheeks against her feet , saying , " o my lady and mistress and coolth of mine eyes , how can i turn back now that i have made my way hither , without the sight of those i desire , and now that i have come near the beloved's site , hoping for meeting forthright , so haply there may be a portion in reunion to my plight ? " and he improvised these couplets ,
" o kings of beauty , grace to prisoner ta'en * of eyelids fit to
&nbsp rule the chosroës' reign :
ye pass the wafts of musk in perfumed breath ; * your cheeks the
&nbsp charms of blooming rose disdain.
the softest zephyr breathes where pitch ye camp * and thence
&nbsp far - scattered sweetness fills the plain :
censor of me , leave blame and stint advice ! * thou bringest
&nbsp wearying words and wisdom vain :
why heat my passion with this flame and up - * braid me when
&nbsp naught thou knowest of its bane ?
captured me eyes with passion maladifs , * and overthrew me with
&nbsp love's might and main :
i scatter tears the while i scatter verse ; * you are my theme for
&nbsp rhyme and prosy strain.
melted my vitals glow of rosy cheeks * and in the lazá - lowe my
&nbsp heart is lain :
tell me , an i leave to discourse of you , * what speech my breast
&nbsp shall broaden ?
tell me deign ! life - long i loved the lovelings fair , but ah , * to
&nbsp grant my wish eke allah must be fain ! "
when it was the eight hundred and ninth night ,
" god make thy glory last in joy of life ; * allah confirm the
&nbsp boons he deigned bestow :
thy grace and grandeur may our lord increase * and aye th'
&nbsp almighty aid thee o'er thy foe ! "
" yea , i will laud thee while the ring - dove moans , * though fail
&nbsp my wish of due and lawful scope :
ne'er was i whirled in bliss and joys gone by * wherein i found
the queen shook her head and bowed it in thought a long time ; then , raising it , she said to hasan ( and indeed she was wroth ) , " i have ruth on thee and am resolved to show thee in review all the girls in the city and in the provinces of my island ; and in case thou know thy wife , i will deliver her to thee ; but , an thou know her not and know not her place , i will put thee to death and crucify thee over the old woman's door. " replied hasan , " i accept this from thee , o queen of the age , and am content to submit to this thy condition. there is no majesty and there is no might save in allah , the glorious , the great ! " and he recited these couplets ,
" you've roused my desire and remain at rest , — * waked my wounded
&nbsp lids while you slept with zest.
and ye made me a vow ye would not hang back * but your guile when
&nbsp you chained me waxt manifest.
i loved you in childhood unknowing love ; * then slay me not who
&nbsp am sore opprest.
fear ye not from allah when slaying a friend * who gazeth on
&nbsp stars when folk sleep their best ?
by allah , my kinsmen , indite on my tomb * 'this man was the slave
&nbsp of love's harshest best ! '
haps a noble youth , like me love's own thrall , * when he sees my
&nbsp grave on my name shall call. "
when it was the eight hundred and tenth night ,
she continued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when queen nur al - huda bade her pages seize hasan and smite his neck , the old woman , shawahi , began to reason with her and say , " verily he hath entered our land and eaten of our meat , wherefore he hath a claim upon us , the more especially since i promised him to bring him in company with thee ; and thou knowest that , parting is a grievous ill and severance hath power to kill , especially separation from children. now he hath seen all our women , save only thyself ; so do thou show him thy face ? " the queen smiled and said , " how can he be my husband and have had children by me , that i should show him my face ? " then she made them bring hasan before her and when he stood in the presence , she unveiled her face , which when he saw , he cried out with a great cry and fell down fainting. the old woman ceased not to tend him , till he came to himself and as soon as he revived he recited these couplets ,
" o breeze that blowest from the land irak * and from their
&nbsp corners whoso cry 'wak ! wak ! '
bear news of me to friends and say for me * i've tasted
&nbsp passion - food of bitter smack.
o dearlings of my love , show grace and ruth * my heart is melted
&nbsp for this severance - rack. "
when he ended his verse he rose and looking on the queen's face , cried out with a great cry , for stress whereof the palace was like to fall upon all therein. then he swooned away again and the old woman ceased not to tend him till he revived , when she asked him what ailed him and he answered , " in very sooth this queen is either my wife or else the likest of all folk to my wife. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and eleventh night ,
she pursued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when the old woman asked hasan what ailed him , he answered , " in very sooth this queen is either my wife or else the likest of all folk to my wife. " quoth nur al - huda to the old woman , " woe to thee , o nurse ! this stranger is either jinn - mad or out of his mind , for he stareth me in the face with wide eyes and saith i am his wife. " quoth the old woman , " o queen , indeed he is excusable ; so blame him not , for the saying saith , 'for the lovesick is no remedy and alike are the madman and he.' " and hasan wept with sore weeping and recited these two couplets ,
" i sight their track and pine for longing love ; * and o'er their
&nbsp homesteads weep i and i yearn :
and i pray heaven who will'ed we should part , * will deign to
&nbsp grant us boon of safe return. "
when it was the eight hundred and twelfth night ,
" witnesses unto love of thee i've four ; * and wants each case two
&nbsp witnesses ; no more !
a heart aye fluttering , limbs that ever quake , * a wasted frame
&nbsp and tongue that speech forswore. "
and also these two ,
" two things there be , an blood - tears thereover * wept eyes till
&nbsp not one trace thou couldst discover ,
eyes ne'er could pay the tithe to them is due * the prime of
&nbsp youth and severance from lover. "
when it was the eight hundred and thirteenth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that the old woman said to the princess manar al - sana , " what words be these , o my lady ? dost thou fear for them from thy sister ? allah safeguard thy reason ! thou mayst not cross the queen's majesty in this matter , for she would be wroth with thee. however , o my lady , the children are young , and thou art excusable in fearing for them , for those that love well are wont to deem ill : but , o my daughter , thou knowest my tenderness and mine affection for thee and thy children , for indeed i reared thee before them. i will take them in my charge and make my cheek their pillow and open my heart and set them within , nor is it needful to charge me with care of them in the like of this case ; so be of cheerful heart and tearless eye and send them to her , for , at the most , i shall but precede thee with them a day or at most two days. " and she ceased not to urge her , till she gave way , fearing her sister's fury and unknowing what lurked for her in the dark future , and consented to send them with the old woman. so she called them and bathed them and equipped them and changed their apparel. then she clad them in the two little coats of mail and delivered them to shawahi , who took them and sped on with them like a bird , by another road than that by which their mother should travel , even as the queen had charged her ; nor did she cease to fare on with all diligence , being fearful for them , till she came in sight of nur al - huda's city , when she crossed the river and entering the town , carried them in to their aunt. the queen rejoiced at their sight and embraced them , and pressed them to her breast ; after which she seated them , one upon the right thigh and the other upon the left ; and turning round said to the old woman , " fetch me hasan forthright , for i have granted him my safeguard and have spared him from my sabre and he hath sought asylum in my house and taken up his abode in my courts , after having endured hardships and horrors and passed through all manner mortal risks , each terribler than other ; yet hitherto is he not safe from drinking the cup of death and from cutting off his breath. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and fourteenth night ,
when it was the eight hundred and fifteenth night ,
" by rights of you , this heart of mine could ne'er aby * severance
&nbsp from you albeit union death imply !
your phantom saith to me , 'a - morrow we shall meet ! ' * shall i
&nbsp despite the foe the morrow - day espy ?
by rights of you i swear , my lords , that since the day * of
&nbsp severance ne'er the sweets of lips enjoyèd i !
an allah bade me perish for the love of you , * mid greatest
&nbsp martyrs for your love i lief will die.
oft a gazelle doth make my heart her browsing stead * the while
&nbsp her form of flesh like sleep eludes mine eye :
if in the lists of law my bloodshed she deny , * prove it two
&nbsp witnesses those cheeks of ruddy dye. "
when nur al - huda was assured that the little ones were indeed hasan's children and that her sister , the princess manar al - sana , was his wife , of whom he was come in quest , she was wroth against her with wrath beyond measure.—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and sixteenth night ,
she pursued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when nur al - huda was certified that the little ones were hasan's children and that her sister manar al - sana was his wife of whom he had come in quest , she raged with exceeding rage , too great to be assuaged and screamed in hasan's face and reviled him and kicked him in the breast , so that he fell on his back in a swoon. then she cried out at him , saying , " arise ! fly for thy life. but that i swore that no evil should betide thee from me , should thy tale prove true , i would slay thee with mine own hand forthright ! " and she cried out at the old woman , who fell on her face for fear , and said to her , " by allah , but that i am loath to break the oath that i swore , i would put both thee and him to death after the foulest fashion ! " ; presently adding , " arise , go out from before me in safety and return to thine own country , for i swear by my fortune , if ever mine eye espy thee or if any bring thee in to me after this , i will smite off thy head and that of whoso bringeth thee ! " then she cried out to her officers , saying , " put him out from before me ! " so they thrust him out , and when he came to himself , he recited these couplets ,
" you're far , yet to my heart you're nearest near ; * absent yet
&nbsp present in my sprite you appear :
by allah , ne'er to other i've inclined * but tyranny of time in
&nbsp patience bear !
nights pass while still i love you and they end , * and burns my
i was a youth who parting for an hour * bore not , then what of
&nbsp months that make a year ?
jealous am i of breeze - breath fanning thee ; * yea jealous - mad of
&nbsp fair soft - sided fere ! "
then he once more fell down in a swoon , and when he came to himself , he found himself without the palace whither they had dragged him on his face ; so he rose , stumbling over his skirts and hardly crediting his escape from nur al - huda. now this was grievous to shawahi ; but she dared not remonstrate with the queen by reason of the violence of her wrath. and forthright hasan went forth , distracted and knowing not whence to come or whither to go ; the world , for all its wideness , was straitened upon him and he found none to speak a kind word with him and comfort him , nor any to whom he might resort for counsel or to apply for refuge ; wherefore he made sure of death for that he could not journey to his own country and knew none to travel with him , neither wist he the way thither nor might he pass through the wady of the jann and the land of beasts and the islands of birds. so giving himself up for lost he bewept himself , till he fainted , and when he revived , he bethought him of his children and his wife and of that might befal her with her sister , repenting him of having come to those countries and of having hearkened to none , and recited these couplets ,
" suffer mine eye - babes weep lost of love and tears express : *
&nbsp rare is my solace and increases my distress :
the cup of severance - chances to the dregs i've drained ; * who is
&nbsp the man to bear love - loss with manliness ?
&nbsp when shalt be uprolled , o carpet of disgrace ?
i watched the while you slept ; and if you deemed that i * forgot
&nbsp your love i but forget forgetfulness :
woe's me ! indeed my heart is pining for the love * of you , the
&nbsp only leaches who can cure my case :
see ye not what befel me from your fell disdain ? * debased am i
&nbsp before the low and high no less.
i hid my love of you but longing laid it bare , * and burns my
&nbsp heart wi' fire of passion's sorest stress :
ah ! deign have pity on my piteous case , for i * have kept our
&nbsp troth in secresy and patent place !
would heaven i wot shall time e'er deign us twain rejoin ! * you
&nbsp are my heart's desire , my sprite's sole happiness :
my vitals bear the severance - wound : would heaven that you * with
&nbsp tidings from your camp would deign my soul to bless ! "
then he went on , till he came without the city , where he found the river , and walked along its bank , knowing not whither he went. such was hasan's case ; but as regards his wife manar al - sana , as she was about to carry out her purpose and to set out , on the second day after the departure of the old woman with her children , behold , there came in to her one of the chamberlains of the king her sire , and kissed ground between his hands , —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and seventeenth night ,
when it was the eight hundred and eighteenth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that the princess ceased not to persuade him till he deigned give her leave to depart , and bade a thousand horse escort her to the river and abide there , till she entered her sister's city and palace and returned to them , when they should take her and carry her back to him. moreover , he charged her tarry with her sister but two days and return to him in haste ; and she answered , " hearing and obedience. " then rising up she went forth and he with her and farewelled her. now his words had sunken deep into her heart and she feared for her children ; but it availeth not to fortify herself by any device against the onset of destiny. so she set out and fared on diligently three days , till she came to the river and pitched her tents on its bank. then she crossed the stream , with some of her counsellors , pages and suite and , going up to the city and the palace , went in to queen nur al - huda , with whom she found her children who ran to her weeping and crying out , " o our father ! " at this , the tears railed from her eyes and she wept ; then she strained them to her bosom , saying , " what ! have you seen your sire at this time ? would the hour had never been , in which i left him ! if i knew him to be in the house of the world , i would carry you to him. " then she bemoaned herself and her husband and her children weeping and reciting these couplets ,
" my friends , despight this distance and this cruelty , * i pine
&nbsp for you , incline to you where'er you be.
my glance for ever turns toward your hearth and home * and mourns
&nbsp my heart the bygone days you woned with me ,
how many a night foregathered we withouten fear * one loving ,
&nbsp other faithful ever , fain and free ! "
when it was the eight hundred and nineteenth night ,
she continued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that quoth nur al - huda , the queen , to her sister manar al - sana , the princess , " an thou have married sans our knowledge , why didst thou abandon thy husband and separate thy sons from their sire and bring them to our land ? thou hast hidden thy children from us. thinkest thou we know not of this ? allah almighty , he who is cognisant of the concealed , hath made known to us thy case and revealed thy condition and bared thy nakedness. " then she bade her guards seize her and pinion her elbows and shackle her with shackles of iron. so they did as she commanded and she beat her with a grievous beating , so that her skin was torn , and hanged her up by the hair ; after which she cast her in prison and wrote the king her father a writ acquainting him with her case and saying , " there hath appeared in our land a man , a mortal , by name hasan , and our sister manar al - sana avoucheth that she is lawfully married to him and bare him two sons , whom she hath hidden from us and thee ; nor did she discover aught of herself till there came to us this man and informed us that he wedded her and she tarried with him a long while ; after which she took her children and departed , without his knowledge , bidding as she went his mother tell her son , whenas longing began to rack to come to her in the islands of wak. so we laid hands on the man and sent the old woman shawahi to fetch her and her offspring , enjoining her to bring us the children in advance of her. and she did so , whilst manar al - sana equipped herself and set out to visit me. when the boys were brought to me and ere the mother came , i sent for hasan the mortal who claimeth her to wife , and he on entering and at first sight knew them and they knew him ; whereby was i certified that the children were indeed his children and that she was his wife and i learned that the man's story was true and he was not to blame , but that the reproach and the infamy rested with my sister. now i feared the rending of our honour - veil before the folk of our isles ; so when this wanton , this traitress , came in to me , i was incensed against her and cast her into prison and bastinado'd her grievously and hanged her up by the hair. behold , i have acquainted thee with her case and it is thine to command , and whatso thou orderest us that we will do. thou knowest that in this affair is dishonour and disgrace to our name and to thine , and haply the islanders will hear of it , and we shall become amongst them a byword ; wherefore it befitteth thou return us an answer with all speed. " then she delivered the letter to a courier and he carried it to the king , who , when he read it , was wroth with exceeding wrath with his daughter manar al - sana and wrote to nur al - huda , saying , " i commit her case to thee and give thee command over her life ; so , if the matter be as thou sayest , kill her without consulting me. " when the queen had received and read her father's letter , she sent for manar al - sana and they set before her the prisoner drowned in her blood and pinioned with her hair , shackled with heavy iron shackles and clad in hair - cloth ; and they made her stand in the presence abject and abashed. when she saw herself in this condition of passing humiliation and exceeding abjection , she called to mind her former high estate and wept with sore weeping and recited these two couplets ,
" o lord my foes are fain to slay me in despight * nor deem i
&nbsp anywise to find escape by flight :
i have recourse to thee t' annul what they have done ; * thou art
&nbsp th' asylum , lord , of fearful suppliant wight. "
" troubles familiar with my heart are grown and i with them , *
&nbsp erst shunning ; for the generous are sociable still.
not one mere kind alone of woe doth lieger with me lie ; * praised
&nbsp be god ! there are with me thousands of kinds of ill. "
and also these ,
" oft times mischance shall straiten noble breast * with grief ,
&nbsp whence issue is for him to shape :
but when the meshes straitest , tightest , seem * they loose ,
&nbsp though deemed i ne'er to find escape. "
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and twentieth night ,
" if aught i've sinned in sinful way , * or done ill deed and gone
astray ,
the past repent i and i come * to you and for your pardon pray ! "
when nur al - huda heard these lines , her wrath redoubled and she said to her , " wilt speak before me in verse , o whore , and seek to excuse thyself for the mortal sins thou hast sinned ? 'twas my desire that thou shouldst return to thy husband , that i might witness thy wickedness and matchless brazenfacedness ; for thou gloriest in thy lewdness and wantonness and mortal heinousness. " then she called for a palm - stick and , whenas they brought the jaríd , she arose and baring arms to elbows , beat her sister from head to foot ; after which she called for a whip of plaited thongs , wherewith if one smote an elephant , he would start off at full speed , and came down therewith on her back and her stomach and every part of her body , till she fainted. when the old woman shawahi saw this , she fled forth from the queen's presence , weeping and cursing her ; but nur al - huda cried out to her eunuchs , saying , " fetch her to me ! " so they ran after her and seizing her , brought her back to the queen , who bade throw her on the ground and making them lay hold of her , rose and took the whip , with which she beat her , till she swooned away , when she said to her waiting - women , " drag this ill - omened beldam forth on her face and put her out. " and they did as she bade them. so far concerning them ; but as regards hasan , he walked on beside the river , in the direction of the desert , distracted , troubled , and despairing of life ; and indeed he was dazed and knew not night from day for stress of affliction. he ceased not faring on thus , till he came to a tree whereto he saw a scroll hanging : so he took it and found written thereon these couplets ,
" when in thy mother's womb thou wast , * i cast thy case the
&nbsp bestest best ;
and turned her heart to thee , so she * fosterèd thee on fondest
&nbsp breast.
we will suffice thee in whate'er * shall cause thee trouble or
&nbsp unrest ;
we'll aid thee in thine enterprise * so rise and bow to our
&nbsp behest. "
when he had ended reading this scroll , he made sure of deliverance from trouble and of winning reunion with those he loved. then he walked forward a few steps and found himself alone in a wild and perilous wold wherein there was none to company with him ; upon which his heart sank within him for horror and loneliness and his side - muscles trembled , for that fearsome place , and he recited these couplets ,
" o zephyr of morn , an thou pass where the dear ones dwell , * bear
&nbsp greeting of lover who ever in love - longing wones !
and tell them i'm pledged to yearning and pawned to pine * and
&nbsp the might of my passion all passion of lovers unthrones.
their sympathies haply shall breathe in a breeze like thee * and
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and twenty - first night ,
when it was the eight hundred and twenty - second night ,
" there remained not aught save a fluttering , breath and an eye
&nbsp whose owner is confounded.
and a desirous lover whose bowels are burned with fire
&nbsp notwithstanding which she is silent.
the exulting foe pitieth her at the sight of her. alas for her
&nbsp whom the exulting foe pitieth ! "
when hasan saw her in this state of torment and misery and ignominy and infamy , he wept till he fainted ; and when he recovered he saw his children playing and their mother aswoon for excess of pain ; so he took the cap from his head and the children saw him and cried out , " o our father ! " then he covered his head again and the princess came to herself , hearing their cry , but saw only her children weeping and shrieking , " o our father ! " when she heard them name their sire and weep , her heart was broken and her vitals rent asunder and she said to them , " what maketh you in mind of your father at this time ? " and she wept sore and cried out , from a bursten liver and an aching bosom , " where are ye and where is your father ? " then she recalled the days of her union with hasan and what had befallen her since her desertion of him and wept with sore weeping till her cheeks were seared and furrowed and her face was drowned in a briny flood. her tears ran down and wetted the ground and she had not a hand loose to wipe them from her cheeks , whilst the flies fed their fill on her skin , and she found no helper but weeping and no solace but improvising verses. then she repeated these couplets ,
" i call to mind the parting - day that rent our loves in twain ,
&nbsp when , as i turned away , the tears in very streams did rain.
the cameleer urged on his beasts with them , what while i found
&nbsp nor strength nor fortitude , nor did my heart with me remain.
yea , back i turned , unknowing of the road nor might shake off the
&nbsp trance of grief and longing love that numbed my heart and
&nbsp brain ;
and worst of all betided me , on my return , was one who came to
&nbsp me , in lowly guise , to glory in my pain.
since the belovèd's gone , o soul , forswear the sweet of life nor
&nbsp covet its continuance , for , wanting him , 'twere vain.
list , o my friend , unto the tale of love , and god forbid that i
&nbsp should speak and that thy heart to hearken should not deign !
as 'twere el asmaï himself , of passion i discourse fancies rare
—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and twenty - third night ,
" the land of lamping moon is bare and drear ; * o eyne of me pour
&nbsp forth the brimming tear !
they marched : how shall i now be patient ? * that i nor heart nor
&nbsp patience own i swear !
o ye , who marched yet bide in heart of me , * will you , o lords of
&nbsp me , return to that we were ?
what harm if they return and i enjoy * meeting , and they had ruth
&nbsp on tears of care ?
upon the parting - day they dimmed these eyne , * for sad surprise ,
&nbsp and lit the flames that flare.
sore longed i for their stay , but fortune stayed * longings and
&nbsp turned my hope to mere despair.
return to us ( o love ! ) by allah , deign ! * enow of tears have
&nbsp flowed for absence - bane. "
" i have sorrowed on account of our disunion with a sorrow that
&nbsp made the tears to overflow from my eyelids ;
and i vowed that if fortune reunite us , i would never again
&nbsp mention our separation ;
and i would say to the envious , die ye with regret ; by allah i
&nbsp have now attained my desire !
joy hath overwhelmed me to such a degree that by its excess it
&nbsp hath made me weep.
o eye , how hath weeping become thy habit ? thou weepest in joy as
&nbsp well , as in sorrows. "
when it was the eight hundred and twenty - fourth night ,
she pursued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that hasan's wife besought pardon of him saying , " blame me not for my sin ; and indeed i crave mercy of allah almighty. " quoth hasan ( and indeed his heart ached for her ) , " 'twas not thou that wast in fault ; nay , the fault was mine and mine only , for i fared forth and left thee with one who knew not thy rank , neither thy worth nor thy degree. but know , o beloved of my heart and fruit of my vitals and light of mine eyes , that allah ( blessed be he ! ) hath ordained to me power of releasing thee ; so , say me , wouldst thou have me carry thee to thy father's home , there to accomplish what allah decreeth unto thee , or wilt thou forthright depart with me to mine own country , now that relief is come to thee ? " quoth she , " who can deliver me save the lord of the heavens ? go to thy motherland and put away from thee false hope ; for thou knowest not the perils of these parts which , an thou obey me not , soon shalt thou sight. " and she improvised these couplets ,
" on me and with me bides thy volunty ; * why then such anger such
&nbsp despite to me ?
whate'er befel us heaven forbid that love * fade for long time or
&nbsp e'er forgotten be !
ceased not the spy to haunt our sides , till seen * our love
&nbsp estranged and then estranged was he :
in truth i trusted to fair thoughts of thine * though spake the
&nbsp wicked spy maliciously.
we'll keep the secret 'twixt us twain and bold * although the
&nbsp brand of blame unsheathed we see.
the livelong day in longing love i spend * hoping acceptance -
&nbsp message from my friend. "
" thou madest fair thy thought of fate , whenas the days were fair ,
&nbsp and fearedst not the unknown ills that they to thee might
&nbsp bring.
the nights were fair and calm to thee ; thou wast deceived by
&nbsp them , for in the peace of night is born full many a
&nbsp troublous thing. "
then hasan wept and his wife wept for his weeping and for the abasement she had suffered and the cruelties of time and fortune ,
" baulks me my fate as tho' she were my foe ; * each day she
&nbsp showeth me new cark and care :
fate , when i aim at good , brings clear reverse , * and lets foul
&nbsp morrow wait on day that's fair. "
and also these ,
" irks me my fate and clean unknows that i * of my high worth her
&nbsp shifts and shafts despise.
she nights parading what ill - will she works : * i night parading
&nbsp patience to her eyes. "
when it was the eight hundred and twenty - fifth night ,
when it was the eight hundred and twenty - sixth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that the jann said to hasan , " we cannot promise thee safety , o our lord , from this islandry , nor from the mischief of the supreme king and his enchanters and warlocks. it may be they will overcome us and take you from us and we fall into affliction with them , and all to whom the tidings shall come after this will say to us : 'ye are wrong - doers ! how could ye go against the supreme king and carry a mortal out of his dominions , and eke the king's daughter with him ? ' adding , 'wert thou alone with us the thing were light ; but he who conveyed thee hither is capable to carry thee back to thy country and reunite thee with thine own people forthright and in readiest plight. so take heart and put thy trust in allah and fear not ; for we are at thy service , to convey thee to thy country. " hasan thanked them therefor and said , " allah requite you with good ! but now make haste with the horses ; " they replied , " we hear and we obey , " and struck the ground with their feet , whereupon it opened and they disappeared within it and were absent awhile , after which they suddenly reappeared with three horses , saddled and bridled , and on each saddle - bow a pair of saddle - bags , with a leathern bottle of water in one pocket and the other full of provaunt. so hasan mounted one steed and took a child before him , whilst his wife mounted a second and took the other child before her. then the old woman alighted from the jar and bestrode the third horse and they rode on , without ceasing , all night. at break of day , they turned aside from the road and made for the mountain , whilst their tongues ceased not to name allah. then they fared on under the highland all that day , till hasan caught sight of a black object afar as it were a tall column of smoke a - twisting skywards ; so he recited somewhat of the koran and holy writ , and sought refuge with allah from satan the stoned. the black thing grew plainer as they drew near , and when hard by it , they saw that it was an ifrit , with a head like a huge dome and tusks like grapnels and jaws like a lane and nostrils like ewers and ears like leathern targes and mouth like a cave and teeth like pillars of stone and hands like winnowing forks and legs like masts : his head was in the cloud and his feet in the bowels of the earth had plowed. whenas hasan gazed upon him he bowed himself and kissed the ground before him , saying , " o hasan , have no fear of me ; for i am the chief of the dwellers in this land , which is the first of the isles of wak , and i am a moslem and an adorer of the one god. i have heard of you and your coming and when i knew of your case , i desired to depart from the land of the magicians to another land , void of inhabitants and far from men and jinn , that i might dwell there alone and worship allah till my fated end came upon me. so i wish to accompany you and be your guide , till ye fare forth of the wak islands ; and i will not appear save at night ; and do ye hearten your hearts on my account ; for i am a moslem , even as ye are moslems. " when hasan heard the ifrit's words , he rejoiced with exceeding joy and made sure of deliverance ; and he said to him , " allah requite thee weal ! go with us relying upon the blessing of allah ! " so the ifrit forewent them and they followed , talking and making merry , for their hearts were pleased and their breasts were eased and hasan fell to telling his wife all that had befallen him and all the hardships he had undergone , whilst she excused herself to him and told him , in turn , all she had seen and suffered. they ceased not faring all that night.—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and twenty - seventh night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that they ceased not faring all that night and the horses bore them like the blinding leven , and when the day rose all put their hands to the saddle - bags and took forth provaunt which they ate and water which they drank. then they sped diligently on their way , preceded by the ifrit , who turned aside with them from the beaten track into another road , till then untrodden , along the seashores and they ceased not faring on , without stopping , across wadys and wolds a whole month , till on the thirty - first day there arose before them a dust - cloud , that walled the world and darkened the day ; and when hasan saw this , he was confused and turned pale ; and more so when a frightful crying and clamour struck their ears. there , upon the old woman said to him , " o my son , this is the army of the wak islands , that hath overtaken us ; and presently they will lay violent hands on us. " hasan asked , " what shall i do , o my mother ? " ; and she answered , " strike the earth with the rod. " he did so whereupon the seven kings presented themselves and saluted him with the salam , kissing ground before him and saying , " fear not neither grieve. " hasan rejoiced at these words and answered them , saying , " well said , o princes of the jinn and the ifrits ! this is your time ! " quoth they , " get ye up to the mountain - top , thou and thy wife and children and she who is with thee and leave us to deal with them , for we know that you all are in the right and they in the wrong and allah will aid us against them. " so hasan and his wife and children and the old woman dismounted and dismissing the horses , ascended the flank of the mountain.—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and twenty - eighth night ,
when it was the eight hundred and twenty - ninth night ,
she pursued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when princess manar al - sana repeated to her sister these praises of hasan , the other replied , " by allah , this man can claim all respect more by token of his generosity. but was all this on thine account ? " " yes , " answered manar al - sana , and they passed the night in converse till the morning morrowed and the sun rose and they were minded to depart. so they farewelled one another and manar al - sana gave god - speed to the ancient dame after the reconciling her with queen nur al - huda. thereupon hasan smote the earth with the rod and its servants the jinn appeared and saluted him , saying , " praised be allah , who hath set thy soul at rest ! command us what thou wilt , and we will do it for thee in less than the twinking of an eye. " he thanked them for their saying and said to them " allah requite you with good ! saddle me two steeds of the best. " so they brought him forthwith two saddled coursers , one of which he mounted , taking his elder son before him , and his wife rode the other , taking the younger son in front of her. then the queen and the old woman also backed horse and departed , hasan and his wife following the right and nur al - huda and shawahi the left hand road. the spouses fared on with their children , without stopping , for a whole month , till they drew in sight of a city , which they found compassed about with trees and streams and , making the trees , dismounted beneath them thinking to rest there. as they sat talking , behold , they saw many horsemen coming towards them , whereupon hasan rose and going to meet them , saw that it was king hassun , lord of the land of camphor and castle of crystal , with his attendants. so hasan went up to the king and kissed his hands and saluted him ; and when hassun saw him , he dismounted and seating himself with hasan upon carpets under the trees returned his salam and gave him joy of his safety and rejoiced in him with exceeding joy , saying to him , " o hasan , tell me all that hath befallen thee , first and last. " so he told him all of that , whereupon the king marvelled and said to him , " o my son , none ever reached the islands of wak and returned thence but thou , and indeed thy case is wondrous ; but alhamdolillah—praised be god—for safety ! " then he mounted and bade hasan ride with his wife and children into the city , where he lodged them in the guest - house of his palace ; and they abode with him three days , eating and drinking in mirth and merriment , after which hasan sought hassun's leave to depart to his own country and the king granted it. accordingly they took horse and the king rode with them ten days , after which he farewelled them and turned back , whilst hasan and his wife and children fared on a whole month , at the end of which time they came to a great cavern , whose floor was of brass. quoth hasan to his wife , " kennest thou yonder cave ? " ; and quoth she , " no. " said he , " therein dwelleth a shaykh , abu al - ruwaysh hight , to whom i am greatly beholden , for that he was the means of my becoming acquainted with king hassun. " then he went on to tell her all that had passed between him and abu al - ruwaysh , and as he was thus engaged , behold , the shaykh himself issued from the cavernmouth. when hasan saw him , he dismounted from his steed and kissed his hands , and the old man saluted him and gave him joy of his safety and rejoiced in him. then he carried him into the antre and sat down with him , whilst hasan related to him what had befallen him in the islands of wak ; whereat the elder marvelled with exceeding marvel and said , " o hasan , how didst thou deliver thy wife and children ? " so he told them the tale of the cap and the rod , hearing which he wondered and said , " o hasan , o my son , but for this rod and the cap , thou hadst never delivered thy wife and children. " and he replied , " even so , o my lord. " as they were talking , there came a knocking at the door and abu al - ruwaysh went out and found abd al - kaddus mounted on his elephant. so he saluted him and brought him into the cavern , where he embraced hasan and congratulated him on his safety , rejoicing greatly in his return. then said abu al - ruwaysh to hasan , " tell the shaykh abd al - kaddus all that hath befallen thee , o hasan. " he repeated to him every thing that had passed , first and last , till he came to the tale of the rod and cap , —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and thirtieth night ,
she resumed , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that hasan began relating to shaykh abd al - kaddus and shaykh abu al - ruwaysh ( who sat chattting in the cave ) all that had passed , first and last , till he came to the tale of the rod and cap ; where , upon quoth abd al - kaddus , " o my son , thou hast delivered thy wife and thy children and hast no further need of the two. now we were the means of thy winning to the islands of wak , and i have done thee kindness for the sake of my nieces , the daughters of my brother ; wherefore i beg thee , of thy bounty and favour , to give me the rod and the shaykh abu al - ruwaysh the cap. " when hasan heard this , he hung down his head , being ashamed to reply , " i will not give them to you , " and said in his mind , " indeed these two shaykhs have done me great kindness and were the means of my winning to the islands of wak , and but for them i had never made the place , nor delivered my children , nor had i gotten me this rod and cap. " so he raised his head and answered , " yes , i will give them to you : but , o my lords , i fear lest the supreme king , my wife's father , come upon me with his commando and combat with me in my own country , and i be unable to repel them , for want of the rod and the cap. " replied abd al - kaddus , " fear not , o my son ; we will continually succour thee and keep watch and ward for thee in this place ; and whosoever shall come against thee from thy wife's father or any other , him we will fend off from thee ; wherefore be thou of good cheer and keep thine eyes cool of tear , and hearten thy heart and broaden thy breast and feel naught whatsoever of fear , for no harm shall come to thee. " when hasan heard this he was abashed and gave the cap to abu al - ruwaysh , saying to abd al - kaddus , " accompany me to my own country and i will give thee the rod. " at this the two elders rejoiced with exceeding joy and made him ready riches and treasures which beggar all description. he abode with them three days , at the end of which he set out again and the shaykh abd al - kaddus made ready to depart with him. so he and his wife mounted their beasts and abd al - kaddus whistled , when , behold , a mighty big elephant trotted up with fore hand and feet on amble from the heart of the desert and he took it and mounted it. then they farewelled abu al - ruwaysh who disappeared within his cavern ; and they fared on across country , traversing the land in its length and breadth wherever abd al - kaddus guided them by a short cut and an easy way , till they drew near the land of the princesses ; whereupon hasan rejoiced at finding himself once more near his mother , and praised allah for his safe return and reunion with his wife and children after so many hardships and perils ; and thanked him for his favours and bounties , reciting these couplets ,
" haply shall allah deign us twain unite * and lockt in strict
&nbsp embrace we'll hail the light :
and wonders that befel me i'll recount , * and all i suffered from
&nbsp the severance - blight :
and fain i'll cure mine eyes by viewing you * for ever yearned my
&nbsp heart to see your sight :
i hid a tale for you my heart within * which when we meet o' morn
&nbsp i'll fain recite :
i'll blame you for the deeds by you were done * but while blame
&nbsp endeth love shall stay in site. "
" after thy faring never chanced i'spy * a shape , but did thy form
&nbsp therein descry :
nor closed mine eyes in sleep but thee i saw , * e'en as though
&nbsp dwelling 'twixt the lid and eye. "
when she had made an end of her verses , she rejoiced with joy exceeding and hasan said to her , " o my sister , i thank none in this matter save thyself over all thy sisters , and may allah almighty vouchsafe thee aidance and countenance ! " then he related to her all that had past in his journey , from first to last , and all that he had undergone , telling her what had betided him with his wife's sister and how he had delivered his wife and wees and he also described to her all that he had seen of marvels and grievous perils , even to how queen nur al - huda would have slain him and his spouse and children and none saved them from her but the lord the most high. moreover , he related to her the adventure of the cap and the rod and how abd al - kaddus and abu al - ruwaysh had asked for them and he had not agreed to give them to the twain save for her sake ; wherefore she thanked him and blessed him wishing him long life ; and he cried , " by allah , i shall never forget all the kindness thou hast done me from incept to conclusion. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the eight hundred and thirty - first night ,
" the solace of lovers is naught but far , * and parting is naught
&nbsp save grief singular :
and ill - will and absence are naught but woe , * and the victims of
&nbsp love naught but martyrs are ;
and how tedious is night to the loving wight * from his true love
&nbsp parted 'neath evening star !
his tears course over his cheeks and so * he cries , 'o tears be
&nbsp there more to flow ? ' "
" by allah , heal , o my lords , the unwhole * of wasted frame and
&nbsp heart worn with dole :
an you grant her a meeting 'tis but your grace * shall whelm in
&nbsp the boons of the friend her soul :
i despair not of union the lord can grant * and to weal of
&nbsp meeting our woes control ! "
footnotes :
odyssey " sindbad the seaman ; only the bassorite's travels are in
jinn - land and japan. it has points of resemblance in
" fundamental outline " with the persian romance of the fairy hasan
bánú and king bahrám - i - gúr. see also the kathá ( s.s. ) and the two
sons of the asúra máyá ; the tartar " sidhi kúr " ( tales of a
vampire or enchanted corpse ) translated by mr. w. j. thoms ( the
father of " folk - lore " in 1846 , ) in " lays and legends of various
nations " ; the persian bahár - i - dánish ( prime of lore ) . miss
stokes' " indian fairy tales " ; miss frere's " old deccan days " and
mrs. f. a. steel's " tale of the king and his seven sons , " with
notes by lieutenant ( now captain ) r. c. temple ( folk - lore of the
panjab , indian antiquary of march , 1882 ) .
" sindán , " big , strong ( steingass ) .
kajjal ) used in medicine and magic. see herklots , p. 227.
see vol. vi. 242 , for , navita , nauta.
the rakham = aquiline vulture.
mr. payne for variety.
payne. here they are singularly out of place.
torrens ( p. 219 ) .
lesser festival. see vol. i. 84.
" aw'ákibu s - sabri ( kála ba'azuhum )
mahmúdah : kultu , 'khshi an takhirriní.' "
" the effects of patience " ( or aloes ) quoth one " are praiseworthy ! " quoth i , " much i fear lest it make me stool. " mahmúdah is not only un laxatif , but a slang name for a confection of aloes.
fidá'an = instead of. the phrase , which everywhere occurs in the
nights , means , " i would give my life to save thine "
eternity , " made of yellow coral.
( lane iii. 522. ) it reminds rather of shakespear's :
" so loving to my mother ,
that he might not beteem the winds of heaven
visit her face too roughly. "
( zephyr ) for " nadím " ( cup - companion ) .
lane dilutes to " changeable " —making a truism of a metaphor.
( the lusiads ) canto v. 2.
love to torment him still more—ad majorern dei ( amoris ) gloriam.
queen of sheba who visited solomon. in abyssinia she is termed
kebra zá negest or zá makadá , the latter ( according to ferdinand
werne's " african wanderings , " longmans , 1852 ) being synonymous
with ityopia or habash ( ethiopia or abyssinia ) .
persian.
to five and five and fifty - five
the first of letters add
to make a thing to please a king
and drive a wise man mad.
answer vvlva. very interesting to the anthropological student is this excursus of hasan , who after all manner of hardships and horrors and risking his life to recover his wife and children , breaks out into song on the subject of her privities. and it can hardly be tale - teller's gag as both verse and prose show considerable art in composition. ( see p. 348. )
supplementary note to hasan of bassorah.
note ( p.93 ) —there is something wondrous naïve in a lover who , when asked by his mistress to sing a song in her honour , breaks out into versical praises of her parts. but even the classical arab authors did not disdain such themes. see in al - harírí ( ass. of mayyáfarikín ) where abú zayd laments the impotency of old age in form of a rasy or funeral oration ( preston p. 484 , and chenery p. 221 ) . it completely deceived sir william jones , who inserted it into the chapter " de poesi funebri , " p. 527 ( poeseos asiaticæ commentarii ) , gravely noting , " hæc elegia non admodum dissimilis esse videtur pulcherrimi illius carminis de sauli et jonathani obitu ; at que adeò versus iste ubi provocant adversarios nunquam rediit a pugnæ contentione sine spiculo sanguine imbuto , ex hebræoreddi videtur ,
a sanguine occisorum , a fortium virorum adipe ,
arcus jonathani non rediit irritus. "
i need hardly say with captain lockett ( 226 ) that this " sabb warrior , " this arabian achilles , is the celebrated bonus deus or hellespontiacus of the ancients. the oration runs thus : —
o folk i have a wondrous tale , so rare
much shall it profit hearers wise and ware !
i saw in salad - years a potent brave
and sharp of edge and point his warrior glaive ;
who entered joust and list with hardiment
fearless of risk , of victory confident ,
his vigorous onset straitest places oped
and easy passage through all narrows groped :
he ne'er encountered foe in single fight
but came from tilt with spear in blood stained bright ;
nor stormed a fortress howso strong and stark—
with fencèd gates defended deep and dark—
when shown his flag without th' auspicious cry
" aidance from allah and fair victory nigh ! "
thus wise full many a night his part he played
in strength and youthtide's stately garb arrayed ,
dealing to fair young girl delicious joy
and no less welcome to the blooming boy.
but time ne'er ceased to stint his wondrous strength
( steadfast and upright as the gallow's length )
until the nights o'erthrew him by their might
and friends contemned him for a feckless wight ;
nor was a wizard but who wasted skill
over his case , nor leach could heal his ill.
then he abandoned arms abandoned him
who gave and took salutes so fierce and grim ;
and now lies prostrate drooping haughty crest ;
for who lives longest him most ills molest.
then see him , here he lies on bier for bet ; —
who will a shroud bestow on stranger dead ?
a fair measure of the difference between eastern and western manners is afforded by such a theme being treated by their gravest writers and the verses being read and heard by the gravest and most worshipful men , whilst amongst us preston and chenery do not dare even to translate them. the latter , indeed , had all that immodest modesty for which english professional society is notable in this xixth century. he spoiled by needlessly excluding from a scientific publication ( mem. r.a.s. ) all of my proverbia communia syriaca ( see unexplored sryia , i. 364 ) and every item which had a shade of double entendre. but nemesis frequently found him out : during his short and obscure rule in printing house square , the thunderer was distinguished by two of the foulest indecencies that ever appeared in an english paper.
the well - known koranic verse , whereby allah is introduced into an indecent tale and " holy writ " is punned upon. i have noticed ( iii. 206 ) that victory fat'h lit.=opening everything ( as e.g. a maidenhead ) .
/ / / .
the scheme is distinctly anapæstic and mr. lyall ( translations of ancient arabic poetry ) compares with a cognate metre , the tawíl , certain lines in abt vogler , e.g.
" ye know why the forms are fair , ye hear how the tale is told. "
there is the same metaphorical use of " habl " = cord and cause.
payne.
tale of hasan of bassorah.