when it was the five hundredth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " king bahrwan consulted his daughter and her mother and his kinsfolk and they said , 'do what seemeth good to thee.' so he returned straightway to the minister ayn zar and notified to him that his desire had been fulfilled ; and the wazir , abode with him two months , at the end of which time he said to him , 'we beseech thee to bestow upon us that wherefore we came , so we may depart to our own land.' 'i hear and obey , ' answered the king. then he prepared all the gear wanted for the wedding ; and when this was done he assembled his wazirs and all his emirs and the grandees of his realm and the monks and priests who tied the knot of marriage between his daughter and king teghmus by proxy. and king bahrwan bade decorate the city after the goodliest fashion and spread the streets with carpets. then he equipped his daughter for the journey and gave her all manner of presents and rarities and precious metals , such as none may describe ; and ayn zar departed with the princess to his own country. when the news of their approach reached king teghmus , he bade celebrate the wedding festivities and adorn the city ; after which he went in unto the princess and abated her maidenhead ; nor was it long before she conceived by him and , accomplishing her months , bare a man - child like the moon on the night of its full. when king teghmus knew that his wife had given birth to a goodly son , he rejoiced with exceeding joy and , summoning the sages and astrologers and mathematicians , said to them , 'i would that ye draw the horoscope of the newborn child with his ascendant and its aspects and acquaint me what shall befall him in his lifetime.' so they made their calculations and found them favourable ; but , that he would , in his fifteenth year , be exposed to perils and hardships , and that if he survived , he would be happy and fortunate and become a greater king than his father and a more powerful. the king rejoiced greatly in this prediction and named the boy janshah. then he delivered him to the nurses , wet and dry , who reared him excellently well till he reached his fifth year , when his father taught him to read the evangel and instructed him in the art of arms and lunge of lance and sway of sword , so that in less than seven years he was wont to ride a - hunting , and a - chasing ; he became a doughty champion , perfect in all the science of the cavalarice and his father was delighted to hear of his knightly prowess. it chanced one day that king teghmus and his son accompanied by the troops rode out for sport into the woods and wilds and hunted till mid afternoon of the third day , when the prince started a gazelle of a rare colour , which fled before him. so he gave chase to it , followed by seven of king teghmus's white slaves all mounted on swift steeds , and rode at speed after the gazelle , which fled before them till she brought them to the sea shore. they all ran at her to take her as their quarry , but she escaped from them and , throwing herself into the waves , " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and first night ,
when it was the five hundred and second night ,
when it was the five hundred and third night ,
when it was the five hundred and fourth night ,
when it was the five hundred and fifth night ,
when it was the five hundred and sixth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when the jew was questioned anent the coming of the caravan , he replied , " 'next year 'twill come.' at these words the prince wept sore and fell a - sorrowing for himself and his mamelukes ; and lamenting his separation from his mother and father and all which had befallen him in his wanderings. then said the jew , 'o young man , do not weep , but sojourn with us till the caravan shall come , when we will send thee with it to thine own country.' so he tarried with the jew two whole months and every day he went out walking in the streets for his solace and diversion. now it chanced one day , whilst he paced about the main thoroughfares , as of wont , and was bending his steps right and left , he heard a crier crying aloud and saying , 'who will earn a thousand gold pieces and a slave - girl of surpassing beauty and loveliness by working for me between morning and noontide ? ' but no one answered him and janshah said in his mind , 'were not this work dangerous and difficult , he would not offer a thousand diners and a fair girl for half a day's labour.' then he accosted the crier and said , 'i will do the work ; ' so the man carried him to a lofty mansion where they found one who was a jew and a merchant , seated on an ebony chair , to whom quoth the crier , standing respectfully before him , 'o merchant , i have cried every day these three months , and none hath answered , save this young man.' hearing his speech the jew welcomed janshah , led him into a magnificent sitting - room and signalled to bring food. so the servants spread the table and set thereon all manner meats , of which the merchant and janshah ate , and washed their hands. then wine was served up and they drank ; after which the jew rose and bringing janshah a purse of a thousand diners and a slave - girl of rare beauty , said to him , 'take maid and money to thy hire.' janshah took them and seated the girl by his side when the trader resumed , 'to - morrow to the work ! ' ; and so saying he withdrew and janshah slept with the damsel that night. as soon as it was morning , the merchant bade his slaves clothe him in a costly suit of silk whenas he came out of the hammam - bath. so they did as he bade them and brought him back to the house , whereupon the merchant called for harp and lute and wine and they drank and played and made merry till the half of the night was past , when the jew retired to his harim and janshah lay with his slave - girl till the dawn. then he went to the bath and on his return , the merchant came to him and said , 'now i wish thee to do the work for me.' 'i hear and obey , ' replied janshah. so the merchant bade his slaves bring two she - mules and set janshah on one , mounting the other himself. then they rode forth from the city and fared on from morn till noon , when they made a lofty mountain , to whose height was no limit. here the jew dismounted , ordering janshah to do the same ; and when he obeyed the merchant gave him a knife and a cord , saying , 'i desire that thou slaughter this mule.' so janshah tucked up his sleeves and skirts and going up to the mule , bound her legs with the cord , then threw her and cut her throat ; after which he skinned her and lopped off her head and legs and she became a mere heap of flesh. then said the jew , 'slit open the mule's belly and enter it and i will sew it up on thee. there must thou abide awhile and whatsoever thou seest in her belly , acquaint me therewith.' so janshah slit the mule's belly and crept into it , whereupon the merchant sewed it up on him and withdrew to a distance , " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and seventh night ,
when it was the five hundred and eighth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " shaykh nasr pursued , 'thou must know that the lord solomon com misted this castle to my charge and taught me the language of birds and made me ruler over all the fowls which be in the world ; wherefore each and every come hither once in the twelvemonth , and i pass them in review : then they depart ; and this is why i dwell here.' when janshah heard this , he wept sore and said to the shaykh , 'o my father , how shall i do to get back to my native land ? ' replied the old man , 'know , o my son , that thou art near to the mountain kaf , and there is no departing for thee from this place till the birds come , when i will give thee in charge to one of them , and he will bear thee to thy native country. meanwhile tarry with me here and eat and drink and divert thyself with viewing the apartments of this castle.' so janshah abode with shaykh nasr , taking his pleasure in the wady and eating of its fruits and laughing and making merry with the old man , and leading a right joyous life till the day appointed for the birds to pay their annual visit to the governor. thereupon the shaykh said to him , 'o janshah , take the keys of the castle and solace thyself with exploring all its apartments and viewing whatever be therein , but as regards such a room , beware and again beware of opening its door ; and if thou gainsay me and open it and enter there , through nevermore shalt thou know fair fortune.' he repeated this charge again and again with much instance ; then he went forth to meet the birds , which came up , kind by kind , and kissed his hands. such was his case ; but as regards janshah , he went round about the castle , opening the various doors and viewing the apartments into which they led , till he came to the room which shaykh nasr had warned him not to open or enter. he looked at the door and its fashion pleased him , for it had on it a padlock of gold , and he said to himself , 'this room must be goodlier than all the others ; would heaven i wist what is within it , that shaykh nasr should forbid me to open its door ! there is no help but that i enter and see what is in this apartment ; for whatso is decreed unto the creature perforce he must fulfil.' so he put out his hand and unlocked the door and entering , found himself before a great basin ; and hard by it stood a little pavilion , builded all of gold and silver and crystal , with lattice - windows of jacinth. the floor was paved with green beryl and balas rubies and emeralds and other jewels , set in the ground - work mosaic - fashion , and in the midmost of the pavilion was a jetting fountain in a golden basin , full of water and girt about with figures of beasts and birds , cunningly wrought of gold and silver and casting water from their mouths. when the zephyr blew on them , it entered their ears and therewith the figures sang out with birdlike song , each in its own tongue. beside the fountain was a great open saloon with a high dais whereon stood a vast throne of carnelian , inlaid with pearls and jewels , over which was spread a tent of green silk fifty cubits in width and embroidered with gems fit for seal rings and purfled with precious metals. within this tent was a closet containing the carpet of the lord solomon ( on whom be peace ! ) ; and the pavilion was compassed about with a vast garden full of fruit trees and streams ; while near the palace were beds of roses and basil and eglantine and all manner sweet - smelling herbs and flowers. and the trees bore on the same boughs fruits fresh and dry and the branches swayed gracefully to the wooing of the wind. all this was in that one apartment and janshah wondered thereat till he was weary of wonderment ; and he set out to solace himself in the palace and the garden and to divert himself with the quaint and curious things they contained. and first looking at the basin he saw that the gravels of its bed were gems and jewels and noble metals ; and many other strange things were in that apartment. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and ninth night ,
'she shone out in the garden in garments all of green , * with
&nbsp open vest and collars and flowing hair beseen :
'what is thy name ? ' i asked her , and she replied , 'i'm she * who
&nbsp roasts the hearts of lovers on coals of love and teen.'
of passion and its anguish to her made my moan ; * 'upon a rock , '
&nbsp she answered , 'thy plaints are wasted clean.'
'even if thy heart , ' i told her , 'be rock in very deed , * yet
&nbsp hath god made fair water well from the rock , i
when the maidens heard his verses , they laughed and played and sang and made merry. then he brought them somewhat of fruit , and they ate and drank and slept with him till the morning , when they donned their feather - suits , and resuming dove shape flew off and went their way. but as he saw them disappearing from sight , his reason well nigh fled with them , and he gave a great cry and fell down in a fainting fit and lay a - swooning all that day. while he was in this case shaykh nasr returned from the parliament of the fowls and sought for janshah , that he might send him with them to his native land , but found him not and knew that he had entered the forbidden room. now he had already said to the birds , 'with me is a young man , a mere youth , whom destiny brought hither from a distant land ; and i desire of you that ye take him up and carry him to his own country.' and all answered , 'we hear and we obey.' so he ceased not searching for janshah till he came to the forbidden door and seeing it open he entered and found the prince lying a - swoon under a tree. he fetched scented waters and sprinkled them on his face , whereupon he revived and turned. " — and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and tenth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " when shaykh nasr saw janshah lying a - swoon under the tree he fetched him somewhat of scented waters and sprinkled them on his face. thereupon he revived and turned right and left , but seeing none by him save the shaykh , sighed heavily and repeated these couplets ,
'like fullest moon she shines on happiest night , * soft sided
&nbsp fair , with slender shape bedight.
her eye - babes charm the world with gramarye ; * her lips remind of
&nbsp rose and ruby light.
her jetty locks make night upon her hips ; * ware , lovers , ware ye
&nbsp of that curl's despight !
yea , soft her sides are , but in love her heart * outhardens
&nbsp flint , surpasses syenite :
and bows of eyebrows shower glancey shafts * despite the distance
&nbsp never fail to smite.
then , ah , her beauty ! all the fair it passes ; * nor any rival her
&nbsp who see the light.'
when shaykh nasr heard these verses , he said , 'o my son , did i not warn thee not to open that door and enter that room ? but now , o my son , tell me what thou sawest therein and acquaint me with all that betided thee.' so janshah related to him all that had passed between him and the three maidens , and shaykh nasr , who sat listening in silence said , 'know , o my son , that these three maidens are of the daughters of the jann and come hither every year for a day , to divert themselves and make merry until mid afternoon , when they return to their own country.' janshah asked , 'and where is their country ? ' ; and the old man answered , 'by allah , o my son , i wot not : ' presently adding , 'but now take heart and put away this love from thee and come with me , that i may send thee to thine own land with the birds.' when janshah heard this , he gave a great cry and fell down in a trance ; and presently he came to himself , and said , 'o my father indeed i care not to return to my native land : all i want is to foregather with these maidens and know , o my father , that i will never again name my people , though i die before thee.' then he wept and cried , 'enough for me that i look upon the face of her i love , although it be only once in the year ! ' and he sighed deeply and repeated these couplets ,
&nbsp and would this love for man were ever dight !
were not my heart afire for love of you , * tears ne'er had
&nbsp stained my cheeks nor dimmed my sight.
by night and day , i bid my heart to bear * its griefs , while
&nbsp fires of love my body blight.'
then he fell at shaykh nasr's feet and kissed them and wept sore , crying , 'have pity on me , so allah take pity on thee and aid me in my strait so allah aid thee ! ' replied the old man , 'by allah o my son , i know nothing of these maidens nor where may be their country ; but , o my son , if thy heart be indeed set on one of them , tarry with me till this time next year for they will assuredly reappear ; and , when the day of their coming draweth near , hide thyself under a tree in the garden. as soon as they have alighted and doffed their feather - robes and plunged into the lake and are swimming about at a distance from their clothes , seize the vest of her whom thy soul desireth. when they see thee , they will come a bank and she , whose coat thou hast taken , will accost thee and say to thee with the sweetest of speech and the most witching of smiles , 'give me my dress , o my brother , that i may don it and veil my nakedness withal.' but if thou yield to her prayer and give her back the vest thou wilt never win thy wish : nay , she will don it and fly away to her folk and thou wilt nevermore see her again now when thou hast gained the vest , clap it under thine armpit and hold it fast , till i return from the parliament of the fowls , when i will make accord between thee and her and send thee back to thy native land , and the maiden with thee. and this , o my son , is all i can do for thee , nothing more.' " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and eleventh night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " quoth shaykh nasr to janshah , 'hold fast the feather - robe of her thy soul desireth and give it not back to her till i return from the parliament of the fowls. and this , o my son , is all i can do for thee , nothing more.' when janshah heard this , his heart was solaced and he abode with shaykh nasr yet another year , counting the days as they passed until the day of the coming of the birds. and when at last the appointed time arrived the old man said to him , 'do as i enjoined thee and charged thee with the maidens in the matter of the feather - dress , for i go to meet the birds ; ' and janshah replied , 'i hear and i obey , o my father.' then the shaykh departed whilst the prince walked into the garden and hid himself under a tree , where none could see him. here he abode a first day and a second and a third , but the maidens came not ; whereat he was sore troubled and wept and sighed from a heart hard tried ; and he ceased not weeping and wailing till he fainted away. when he came to himself , he fell to looking now at the basin and now at the welkin , and anon at the earth and anon at the open country , whilst his heart grieved for stress of love - longing. as he was in this case , behold , the three doves appeared in the firmament , eagle - sized as before , and flew till they reached the garden and lighted down beside the basin. they turned right and left ; but saw no one , man or jann ; so they doffed their feather - suits and became three maidens. then they plunged into the basin and swam about , laughing and frolicking ; and all were mother - naked and fair as bars of virgin silver. quoth the eldest , 'o my sister , i fear lest there be some one lying ambushed for us in the pavilion. answered the second , 'o sister , since the days of king solomon none hath entered the pavilion , be he man or jann ; ' and the youngest added , laughing , 'by allah , o my sisters , if there be any hidden there , he will assuredly take none but me.' then they continued sporting and laughing and janshah's heart kept fluttering for stress of passion : but he hid behind the tree so that he saw without being seen. presently they swam out to the middle of the basin leaving their clothes on the bank. hereupon he sprang to his feet , and running like the darting levee to the basin's brink , snatched up the feather - vest of the youngest damsel , her on whom his heart was set and whose name was shamsah the sun - maiden. at this the girls turned and seeing him , were affrighted and veiled their shame from him in the water. then they swam near the shore and looking on his favour saw that he was bright faced as the moon on the night of fullness and asked him , 'who art thou and how camest thou hither and why hast thou taken the clothes of the lady shamsah ? ' ; and he answered , 'come hither to me and i will tell you my tale.' quoth shamsah , 'what deed is this , and why hast thou taken my clothes , rather than those of my sisters ? ' quoth he , 'o light of mine eyes , come forth of the water , and i will recount thee my case and acquaint thee why i chose thee out.' quoth she , 'o my lord and coolth of my eyes and fruit of my heart , give me my clothes , that i may put them on and cover my nakedness withal ; then will i come forth to thee.' but he replied , 'o princess of beautiful ones , how can i give thee back thy clothes and slay myself for love longing ? verily , i will not give them to thee , till shaykh nasr , the king of the birds , shall return.' quoth she , 'if thou wilt not give me my clothes withdraw a little apart from us , that my sisters may land and dress themselves and lend me somewhat wherewithal to cover my shame.' 'i hear and obey , ' answered he , and walked away from them into the pavilion , whereupon the three princesses came out and the two elder , donning their dress , gave shamsah somewhat thereof , not enough to fly withal , and she put it on and came forth of the water , and stood before him , as she were the rising full moon or a browsing gazelle. then shamsah entered the pavilion , where janshah was still sitting on the throne ; so she saluted him and taking seat near him , said , 'o fair of face , thou hast undone thyself and me ; but tell us thy adventures that we may ken how it is with thee.' at these words he wept till he drenched his dress with his tears ; and when she saw that he was distracted for love of her , she rose and taking him by the hand , made him sit by her side and wiped away the drops with her sleeve ; and said she , 'o fair of face , leave this weeping and tell us thy tale.' so he related to her all that had befallen him and described to her all he had seen , " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and twelfth night ,
she continued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " the lady shamsah said to janshah , 'tell us thy tale ; ' so he related to her all that had befallen him ; and , after she had lent attentive ear she sighed and said , 'o my lord , since thou art so fondly in love with me , give me my dress , that i may fly to my folk , i and my sisters , and tell them what affection thou hast conceived for me , and after i will come back to thee and carry thee to thine own country.' when he heard this , he wept sore and replied , 'is it lawful to thee before allah to slay me wrongfully ? ' she asked , 'o my lord , why should i do such wrongous deed ? ' ; and he answered , 'if i give thee thy gear thou wilt fly away from me , and i shall die forthright.' princess shamsah laughed at this and so did her sisters ; then said she to him , 'be of good cheer and keep thine eyes cool and clear , for i must needs marry thee.' so saying , she bent down to him and embraced him and pressing him to her breast kissed him between the eyes and on his cheeks. they clipped and clasped each other awhile , after which they drew apart and sat down on the throne. then the eldest princess went out into the garden and , plucking somewhat of fruits and flowers , brought them into the pavilion ; and they ate and drank and laughed and sported and made merry. now janshah was singular in beauty and loveliness and slender shape and symmetry and grace , and the princess shamsah said to him , 'o my beloved , by allah , i love thee with exceeding love and will never leave thee ! ' when he heard her words , his breast broadened and he laughed for joy till he showed his teeth ; and they abode thus awhile in mirth and gladness and frolic. and when they were at the height of their pleasure and joyance , behold , shaykh nasr returned from the parliament of the fowls and came in to them ; whereupon they all rose to him and saluted him and kissed his hands. he gave them welcome and bade them be seated. so they sat down and he said to princess shamsah , 'verily this youth loveth thee with exceeding love ; allah upon thee , deal kindly with him , for he is of the great ones of mankind and of the sons of the kings , and his father ruleth over the land of kabul and his reign compasseth a mighty empire.' quoth she , 'i hear and i obey thy behest' ; and , kissing the shaykh's hands stood before him in respect. quoth he , 'if thou say sooth , swear to me by allah that thou wilt never betray him , what while thou abidest in the bonds of life.' so she swore a great oath that she would never betray janshah , but would assuredly marry him , and added , 'know , o shaykh nasr , that i never will forsake him.' the shaykh believed in her oath and said to janshah , 'thanks be to allah , who hath made you arrive at this understanding ! ' hereupon the prince rejoiced with exceeding joy , and he and shamsah abode three months with shaykh nasr , feasting and toying and making merry. " — and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and thirteenth night ,
when it was the five hundred and fourteenth night ,
when it was the five hundred and fifteenth night ,
she pursued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " king teghmus said to the lady shamsah , 'laud to allah for that he hath caused thee to reunite me with my son ! verily this is of his exceeding bounty.' and now i would have thee ask of me what thou wilt , that i may do it in thine honour.' quoth she , 'i ask of thee that thou build me a palace in the midst of a flower garden , with water running under it.' and the king answered , 'i hear and obey.' and behold , up came janshah's mother , attended by all the wives of the wazirs and emirs and nobles and city notables. when her son had sight of her , he rose and leaving the tent , went forth to meet her and they embraced a long while , whilst the queen wept for excess of joy and with tears trickling from her eyes repeated the following verses ,
'joy so o'ercometh me , for stress of joy * in that which
&nbsp gladdeneth me i fain shed tears :
tears are become your nature , o my eyes , * who weep for joyance
&nbsp as for griefs and fears.'
when it was the five hundred and sixteenth night ,
'patience hath fled , but passion fareth not ; * and all my frame
&nbsp with pine is fever - hot :
when will the days my lot with shamsah join ? * lo , all my bones
&nbsp with passion - lowe go rot ! '
now there was a deadly feud between king teghmus and a certain king of hind , by name kafíd , who had great plenty of troops and warriors and champions ; and under his hand were a thousand puissant chieftains , each ruling over a thousand tribes whereof every one could muster four thousand cavaliers. he reigned over a thousand cities each guarded by a thousand forts and he had four wazirs and under him ruled emirs , princes and sovereigns ; and indeed he was a king of great might and prowess whose armies filled the whole earth. now king teghmus had made war upon him and ravaged his reign and slain his men and of his treasures had made gain. but when it came to king kafid's knowledge that king teghmus was occupied with the love of his son , so that he neglected the affairs of the state and his troops were grown few and weak by reason of his care and concern for his son's state , he summoned his wazirs and emirs and said to them , 'ye all know that whilom king teghmus invaded our dominions and plundered our possessions and slew my father and brethren , nor indeed is there one of you , but he hath harried his lands and carried off his goods and made prize of his wives and slain some kinsmen of his. now i have heard this day that he is absorbed in the love of his son janshah , and that his troops are grown few and weak ; and this is the time to take our blood revenge on him. so make ready for the march and don ye your harness of battle ; and let nothing stay or delay you , and we will go to him and fall upon him and slay him and his son , and possess ourselves of his reign.' " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and seventeenth night ,
when it was the five hundred and eighteenth night ,
when it was the five hundred and nineteenth night ,
when it was the five hundred and twentieth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " king fakun mustered his men and marched to meet the king of hind : and whileas king teghmus was sitting at his pleasance , there came one in to him and said , 'i see from afar a cloud of dust spireing high in air and overspreading the lift.' so he commanded a company to fare forth and learn the meaning of this ; and , crying , 'to hear is to obey , ' they sallied out and presently returned and said to him , 'o king , when we drew near the cloud of dust , the wind rent it and it lifted and showed seven standards and under each standard three thousand horse , making for king kafid's camp.' then king fakun joined himself to the king of hind and saluting him , asked , 'how is it with thee , and what be this war in which thou arrest ? ' ; and kafid answered , 'knowest thou not that king teghmus is my enemy and the murtherer of my father and brothers ? wherefore i am come forth to do battle with him and take my brood wreak on him.' quoth fakun , 'the blessing of the sun be upon thee ! ' ; and the king of hind carried king fakun al - kalb to his tent and rejoiced in him with exceeding joy. such was the case of the two hostile kings ; but as regards king janshah , he abode two months shut up in his palace , without seeing his father or allowing one of the damsels in his service to come in to him ; at the end of which time he grew troubled and restless and said to his attendants , 'what aileth my father that he cometh not to visit me ? ' they told him that he had gone forth to do battle with king kafid , whereupon quoth janshah , 'bring me my steed , that i may go to my sire.' they replied , 'we hear and obey , ' and brought his horse ; but he said in himself , 'i am taken up with the thought of myself and my love and i deem well to mount and ride for the city of the jews , where haply allah shall grant me the boon to meet the merchant who hired me for the ruby business and may be he will deal with me as he dealt before , for none knoweth whence good cometh.' so he took with him a thousand horse and set out , the folk saying , 'at last janshah hath fared forth to join his father in the field , and to fight by his side ; ' and they stinted not pushing on till dusk , when they halted for the night in a vast meadow. as soon as he knew that all his men were asleep , the prince rose privily and girding his waist , mounted his horse and rode away intending to make baghdad , because he had heard from the jews that a caravan came thence to their city once in every two years and he made up his mind to journey thither with the next cafilah. when his men awoke and missed the prince and his horse , they mounted and sought him right and left but , finding no trace of him , rejoined his father and told him what his son had done ; whereat he was wroth beyond measure and cast the crown from his head , whilst the sparks were like to fly from his mouth , and he said 'there is no majesty and there is no might but in allah ! verily i have lost my son , and the enemy is still before me.' but his wazirs and vassals said to him , 'patience , o king of the age ! patience bringeth weal in wake.' meanwhile janshah , parted from his lover and pained for his father , was in sore sorrow and dismay , with heart seared and eyes tear - bleared and unable to sleep night or day. but when his father heard the loss his host had endured , he declined battle , and fled before king kafid , and retiring to his city , closed the gates and strengthened the walls. thereupon king kafid followed him and sat down before the town ; offering battle seven nights and eight days , after which he withdrew to his tents , to tend his wounded while the citizens defended themselves as they best could , fortifying the place and setting up mangonels and other engines on the walls. such was the condition of the two kings , and war raged between them for a space of seven years. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and twenty - first night ,
when it was the five hundred and twenty - second night ,
when it was the five hundred and twenty - third night ,
when it was the five hundred and twenty - fourth night ,
when it was the five hundred and twenty - fifth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " the fowl ceased not flying with janshah two full days ; till it reached the spot where the nest was , and set him down there and said , 'o janshah , this is where our nest was.' he wept sore and replied , 'i pray thee bear me farther on to where thy parents used to forage for food.' the bird consented ; so it took him up again and flew on with him seven nights and eight days , till it set him down on the top of a high hill karmus highs and left him there saying , 'i know of no land behind this hill.' then it flew away and janshah sat down on the hill - top and fell asleep. when he awoke , he saw a something gleaming afar off as it were lightning and filling the firmament with its flashings ; and he wondered what this sheen could be without wotting that it was the castle he sought. so he descended the mountain and made towards the light , which came from takni , the castle of jewels , distant two months' journey from karmús , the hill whereon he had alit , and its foundations were fashioned of red rubies and its buildings of yellow gold. moreover , it had a thousand turrets builded of precious metals , and stones of price studded and set in the minerals brought from the main of murks , and on this account it was named the castle of jewels , takni. it was a vast great castle and the name of its king was king shahlan , the father of the lady shamsah and her sisters. such was the case with janshah ; but as regards princess shamsah , when she fled from janshah , she made straight for the castle of jewels and told her father and mother all that had passed between the prince and herself ; how he had wandered the world and seen its marvels and wonders and how fondly he loved her and how dearly she loved him. quoth they , 'thou hast not dealt righteously with him , as allah would have thee deal.' moreover king shahlan repeated the story to his guards and officers of the marids of the jinn and bade them bring him every mortal they should see. for the lady shamsah had said to her parents , 'janshah loveth me with passionate love and forsure he will follow me ; for when flying from his father's roof i cried to him , 'an thou love me , seek me at takni , the castle of jewels ! ' now when janshah beheld that sheen and shine , he made straight for it wishing to find out what it might be. and as chance would have it , shamsah had that very day despatched a marid on an occasion in the direction of the hill karmus , and on his way thither he caught sight of a man , a mortal ; so he hastened up to him and saluted him. janshah was terrified at his sight , but returned his salam , and the marid asked , 'what is thy name ? ' and he answered , 'my name is janshah , and i have fallen madly in love with a jinniyah known as princess shamsah , who captivated me by her beauty and loveliness ; but despite my dear love she fled from the palace wherein i placed her and behold , i am here in quest of her.' herewith he wept with bitter weeping. the marid looked at him and his heart burned with pity on hearing the sad tale , and he said , 'weep not , for surely thou art come to thy desire. know that she loveth thee fondly and hath told her parents of thy love for her , and all in yonder castle love thee for her sake ; so be of good cheer and keep thine eyes cool of tear.' then he took him on his shoulders and made off with him to the castle of jewels , takni. thereupon the bearers of fair tidings hastened to report his coming and when the news reached shamsah and her father and mother , they all rejoiced with exceeding joy , and king shahlan took horse and rode out , commanding all his guards and ifrits and marids honourably to meet the prince. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and twenty - sixth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " king shahlan commanded all his guards and ifrits and marids to meet the prince ; and , as soon as he came up with him , he dismounted and embraced him , and janshah kissed his hand. then shahlan bade put on him a robe of honour of many coloured silk , laced with gold and set with jewels , and a coronet such as man never saw , and , mounting him on a splendid mare of the steeds of the kings of the jinn , took horse himself and , with an immense retinue riding on the right hand and the left , brought him in great state to the castle. janshah marvelled at the splendour of this edifice , with its walls builded of rubies and other jewels and its pavement of crystal and jasper and emerald , and fell a weeping at the memory of his past miseries ; but the king and queen , shamsah's mother , wiped away his tears and said , 'now no more weeping and be of good cheer , for thou hast won to thy will.' then shahlan carried him into the inner court of the castle , where he was received by a multitude of beautiful damsels and pages and black jinn - slaves , who seated him in the place of honour and stood to do him service , whilst he was lost in amazement at the goodliness of the place , and its walls all edified of precious metals and jewels of price. presently king shahlan repaired to his hall of audience , where he sat down on his throne and , bidding the slave - girls and the pages introduce the prince , rose to receive him and seated him by his side on the throne. then he ordered the tables to be spread and they ate and drank and washed their hands ; after which in came the queen shamsah's mother , and saluting janshah , bade him welcome in these words , 'thou hast come to thy desire after weariness and thine eyes shall now sleep after watching ; so praised be allah for thy safety ! ' thus saying , she went away and forthwith returned with the princess shamsah , who saluted janshah and kissed his hands , hanging her head in shame and confusion before him and her parents , after which as many of her sisters as were in the palace came up to him and greeted him in like manner. then quoth the queen to him , 'welcome , o my son , our daughter shamsah hath indeed sinned against thee , but do thou pardon her misdeed for our sakes.' when janshah heard this , he cried out and fell down fainting , whereat the king marvelled and they sprinkled on his face rose water mingled with musk and civet , till he came to himself and , looking at princess shamsah , said , 'praised be allah who hath brought me to my desire and hath quenched the fire of my heart ! ' replied she , 'may he preserve thee from the fire ! , but now tell me , o janshah , what hath befallen thee since our parting and how thou madest thy way to this place ; seeing that few even of the jann ever heard of takni , the castle of jewels ; and we are independent of all the kings nor any wotteth the road hither.' thereupon he related to her every adventure and peril and hardship he had suffered and how he had left his father at war with king kafid , ending with these words , 'and all for thy sake , my lady shamsah ! ' quoth the queen , 'now hast thou thy heart's desire , for the princess is thy handmaid , and we give her in free gift to thee.' janshah joyed exceedingly at these words and the queen added , 'next month , if it be the will of almighty allah , we will have a brave wedding and celebrate the marriage festival and after the knot is tied we will send you both back to thy native land , with an escort of a thousand marids of our body - guard , the least of whom , an thou bid him slay king kafid and his folk , would surely destroy them to the last man in the twinkling of an eye. furthermore if it please thee we will send thee , year after year , a company of which each and every can so do with all thy foes.' " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and twenty - seventh night ,
she continued , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " the lady shamsah's mother ended with saying , 'and if it so please thee we will send thee , year after year , a company of which each and every can destroy thy foes to the last man.' then king shahlan sat down on his throne and , summoning his grandees and officers of state , bade them make ready for the marriage - festivities and decorate the city seven days and nights. 'we hear and we obey , ' answered they and busied themselves two months in the preparations , after which they celebrated the marriage of the prince and princess and held a mighty festival , never was there its like. then they brought janshah in to his bride and he abode with her in all solace of life and delight for two years , at the end of which time he said to her , 'thy father promised to send us to my native land , that we might pass one year there and the next here.' answered she , i hear and obey , ' and going in to king shahlan at nightfall told him what the prince had said. quoth he , 'i consent ; but have patience with me till the first of the month , that i may make ready for your departure.' she repeated these words to her husband and they waited till the appointed time , when the king bade his marids bring out to them a great litter of red gold , set with pearls and jewels and covered with a canopy of green silk , purfled in a profusion of colours and embroidered with precious stones , dazzling with its goodliness the eyes of every beholder. he chose out four of his marids to carry the litter in whichever of the four quarters the riders might choose. moreover , he gave his daughter three hundred beautiful damsels to wait upon her and bestowed on janshah the like number of white slaves of the sons of the jinn. then the lady shamsah took formal leave of her mother and sisters and all her kith and kin ; and her father fared forth with them. so the four marids took up the litter , each by one corner , and rising under it like birds in air , flew onward with it between earth and heaven till mid - day , when the king bade them set it down and all alighted. then they took leave of one another and king shahlan commended shamsah to the prince's care , and giving them in charge to the marids , returned to the castle of jewels , whilst the prince and princess remounted the litter , and the marids taking it up , flew on for ten whole days , in each of which they accomplished thirty months' journey , till they sighted the capital of king teghmus. now one of them knew the land of kabul ; so when he saw the city , he bade the others let down the litter at that populous place which was the capital. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and twenty - eighth night ,
when it was the five hundred and twenty - ninth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that " king teghmus and his son and daughter - in - law went up to the terrace roof and enjoyed a prospect of the jinn - guards battling with the beleaguering host. and king kafid ( still hanging between heaven and earth ) also saw the slaughter of his troops and wept sore and buffeted his face ; nor did the carnage cease among the army of hind for two whole days , till they were cut off even to the last man. then janshah commanded a marid , by name shimwál , chain up king kafid with manacles and fetters , and imprison him in a tower called the black bulwark. and when his bidding was done , king teghmus bade beat the drums and despatched messengers to announce the glad news to janshah's mother , informing her of his approach ; whereupon she mounted in great joy and she no sooner espied her son than she clasped him in her arms and swooned away for stress of gladness. they sprinkled rose - water on her face , till she came to herself , when she embraced him again and again wept for excess of joy. and when the lady shamsah knew of her coming , she came to her and saluted her ; and they embraced each other and after remaining embraced for an hour sat down to converse. then king teghmus threw open the city gates and despatched couriers to all parts of the kingdom , to spread the tidings of his happy deliverance ; whereupon all his princely vassals and emirs and the grandees of the realm flocked to salute him and give him joy of his victory and of the safe return of his son ; and they brought him great store of rich offerings and curious presents. the visits and oblations continued for some time , after which the king made a second and a more splendid bride - feast for the princess shamsah and bade decorate the city and held high festival. lastly they unveiled and paraded the bride before janshah , with apparel and ornaments of the utmost magnificence , and when her bridegroom went in to her he presented her with an hundred beautiful slave - girls to wait upon her. some days after this , the princess repaired to the king and interceded with him for kafid , saying , 'suffer him return to his own land , and if henceforward he be minded to do thee a hurt , i will bid one of the jinn - guard snatch him up and bring him to thee.' replied teghmus , 'i hear and i obey , ' and bade shimwal bring him the prisoner , who came manacled and fettered and kissed earth between his hands. then he commanded to strike off his chains and , mounting him on a lame mare , said to him , 'verily princess shamsah hath interceded for thee : so begone to thy kingdom , but if thou fall again to thine old tricks , she will send one of the marids to seize thee and bring thee hither.' thereupon king kafid set off home wards , in the sorriest of plights , " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and thirtieth night ,
'the house , sweet heart , is now no home to me * since thou art
&nbsp gone , nor neighbour neighbourly ,
the friend whilom i took to heart , no more * is friend , and
&nbsp brightest lights lose brilliancy.'
but when bulukiya heard out janshah's tale he marvelled , " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the five hundred and thirty - first night ,
when it was the five hundred and thirty - second night ,
when it was the five hundred and thirty - third night ,
when it was the five hundred and thirty - fourth night ,
when it was the five hundred and thirty - fifth night ,
when it was the five hundred and thirty - sixth night ,
footnotes :
pliny ( ( xxx ) . 18 ) reports as " drying up every sabbath - day "
( saturday ) : and which josephus reports as breaking the sabbath by
flowing only on the day of rest.
al - medinah.
infinity ( eternity without end ) .