yo , ush
what up , kells ?
wanna introduce you to this girl , think i really love this girl
yeah ?
man , she's so fine
straight up , dawg
she stands about 5'4 " , coca cola , red bone
damn
she drives a black durango
license plate say angel ( what ? )
tattoo on her ankle
plus , she's making pesos
got a crib on peachtree ( peachtree ? )
right on 17 street
and i call her tete
wait a minute , hold on , dawg
do she got a kid ? ( yep )
she love some waffle house ? ( yep )
do she got a beauty mark on the left side of her mouth ? ( man.. )
went to georgia tech ? ( yup ) works for tbs ? ( yup )
man , i can't believe this shit , damn
tell me what's wrong dawg , what the hell you damnin' 'bout ?
i'm your homie so just say what's on your mind
man , i didn't know that you were talkin' 'bout her
so man you telling me you know her ?
do i know her ? like a pastor know his word
( we messing with the same girl , the same girl )
how could the love of my life
and my potential wife be the
( the same girl , same girl )
man i can't believe that
we've been messing with the
( the same girl , the same girl )
thought she was someone i could trust
but she's been doubling up with us
( u , k , man we been messing with same girl )
see i met her at this party in atlanta
well i met her at this party in chicago
she came right up to me , giving me conversation
i said " do you got a man ? "
she said " no " with no hesitation
well , it must be a music thing
cause she said the same to me
at party all in my face
while i'm laughing and buying her drinks
she whispered in my ear , said " can you take me home ? "
me too , man , she was in the chi singing that same song
is that true ?
and i thought it was true confessions when she said " i love you "
man i thought her body was calling when she said " i want you "
look i even got some pictures on my phone
looky there , there she is with some boy shorts on
( we messing with the same girl , the same girl )
she's the apple of my eye
and my potential wife
( the same girl , same girl )
man i just can't believe that we've been messing around with the same damn girl , oh yeah
( the same girl , same girl )
thought she was someone i could trust
but she's been doubling up with us
( u , k , man we been messing with same girl )
said she got me on a ring tone
are you talking about the pink phone ?
mmm mmm , the blue one
man , she told me that was turned off
it's obvious that she's been playing us , playing us
cause constantly she's been lying to us , lying to us
don't like the way that she's been going 'bout , going 'bout
kells , what you think that we should do about it , about it ?
call her up at her home
she won't know i'm on the phone
yeah , man , that's the way
homie , we about to bust this trick
man , just ask her to meet up with you and i'm going to show up too
and she won't know what to do
we'll be standing there singing
( the same girl , same girl )
she was the apple of my eye
and your potential wife
( the same girl , same girl )
i just can't believe that we've been messing with the same girl
( the same girl , the same girl )
she gon' be looking so stupid when she see us together
( u , k , man we been messing with same girl )
see , she was taking flights , going back and forth
i would pick her up , ay , at the airport
man , i really can't believe
i can't believe it no
( the same girl , same girl )