*snort*
- plug. word
- yo , son. word , yo , you know what i'm saying ? you know we had the baddest mothafuckin'... unit back in the days kid
- no doubt. i know that , son , i know that. you know that
- you know , i know that. yo , son. you know what i'm saying ? i miss all my niggas though believe me !
- no doubt , word up , you know what i'm saying ?
- and i don't never forget none of it. su , tyrese , size , you know what i'm saying. all them wild - ass niggas , man
- rob , you know what i'm saying ?
- you know what i'm saying ? l , yo , man , shit is wild , you know what i'm saying god ? word up
- no doubt , yeah. tyrese , yeah
- you know what i'm saying ? so you let my shit go at the count of three though , you know what i'm saying ?
- powerful. word up. yo , it's time , it's your time
fake niggas throw shit in they drinks
club nights we snatch linx , politic , africans , and chinks
while world of sport niggas snort coke by the seconds
niggas projects filled with fiends injecting morphine
the god seen more cream , and upstate
cousin reek , almost got hit with fourteen
chill pa , the god'll be a star when you come home
light bones , and let you rock my 3g stone
so , see cousin , yo i was working , cats i'm jerking
and uptown these niggas acting like they hurting
keys 24 a brick
columbians be on some bullshit , that's why papi got hit
stay tuned , word up , i hope to see you in june
by the way , i seen your bitch , she was up in this cat's room
skied up , weed the fuck up , to top it off
look beat up , with two crack fiends hugging your seed up
i took care of that , though , but don't worry 'bout it
i got your back though
yo , why's my niggas always yelling that broke shit ?
let's get money son , now you wanna smoke shit
chill god , yo , the son don't chill allah
what's today's mathematics , son ? knowledge god
fly like cashmere , last year , my team caught bodies in grasmere
hit a store owner named mike lavogna
italiano , slanted - eyed , banging them fat milano
selling coke right out the bottle
sometime , a nigga brought 9's , to test with mines
crazy peace , buying keys in greece
was a rich nigga , picture the nigga without dope figures
condo with his chick , rocking the gold vigor
mafia flicks , tying up tricks was his main hobby
teaching his seed , wu - tang karate
mixing drinks in clubs , hairy chest with many minks
night time rolling with snakes
extra live , he claimed he couldn't die , top rank
sixteen shots in his fish tank
and his pet piranha , he named him marijuana
smokin ganja , calling his weed pipe sandra
claiming new york was ancient babylon
where the sky stayed the color of grey , like her - on
i can't front though , truck loads of indo
soon to blow slow , his ass is out now , tally - ho
yo , why's my niggas always yelling that broke shit ?
let's get money son , now you wanna smoke shit
chill god , yo , the son don't chill allah
what's today's mathematics , son ? knowledge god
yo , why's my niggas always yelling that broke shit ?
let's get money son , now you wanna smoke shit
chill god , yo , the son don't chill allah
what's today's mathematics , son ? knowledge god
yo , why's my niggas always yelling that broke shit ?
let's get money son , now you wanna smoke shit
chill god , yo , the son don't chill allah
what's today's mathematics , son ? knowledge god