ev'rybody grown in here right ? ! rated m for mature bitches
i'm sayin don't get me wrong y'know , digga love the kids but ummm.......
this ain't no lil' kid rap right here , now i don't know
i might have to make y'all rock a certain color wristband to bump this
yo you might even learn a new word before it's all over
try to keep up youngins !
yo ! see ! i don't study what the next folk have
take two totes and pass invoke my own craft
grown up swag whole other vocab
y'all one hit wonders blowin smoke up they ass
see even after ya peak you'll never measure me
rah legendary status rakim , eric b
diggin in some lil' kid ass like pleasure p
hip hop police might start come arrestin me ( see )
this that 401 cake up not jacob
boy tie your shoelace up , get a shape up !
you in the presence of , hip hop royalty
rah anastasia , memoirs of a geisha
specialty turnin blood money into pay stubs
type of pen game most rappers be afraid of
some even call me the boom bap savior
new pledges beware i might have to haze ya
huh ! this ain't no lil' kid rap here
uh uh ! this ain't no lil' kid rap here
shieeettttt ! ! ! this that gettin off from work
and you wanna bop your head not tryin to do the jerk ( how it work ! )
they say i'm what the game been missin
tell 'em rhymes do matter but they ain't listnenin ( they ain't listenin )
could spend a whole lifetime fishin
won't find another better on this write rhyme mission
this like a case of , final destination
reincurring nightmare , michael freddy jason
code of a da vinci , bitches like pinch me
drag 'em all to hell , twenty - twelve go against me ( ow ! ! )
i ain't even beat , just doin my numbers
in and out the limelight kinda somethin like jumper
bite front your line or two , a haiku
or the next rhyme i write might be about you !
huh ! this ain't no lil' kid rap here
uh uh ! this ain't no lil' kid rap here
( what it is ! ) this ain't no abra cadabra , a chitter chatter
foot soldier risin quiet , not even a pitter patter
( be my guest ) nigga , gather your dad your peers or nails
i be in mails chattin with actors , even a steven spel'
i'm a rapper's rapper , make no hap hazard
in a cypher , i'm tariq , mos def , and mr. mathers ( and mr. mathers ! )
huh ! i ain't no lil' kid rapper
uh uh ! this ain't no lil' kid rap here
dang ! ! ! this that pinky and the brain
i'm the shhh gucci mane in the bricks i got stained
they say i'm what the game been missin
tell 'em rhymes do matter but they ain't listnenin ( they ain't listenin )
could spend a whole lifetime fishin
won't find another better on this write rhyme mission
they say i'm what the game been missin ( i mean , they keep callin me ! )
they say i'm what the game been missin ( i been chillin )
they say i'm what the game been missin
rappers sayin they are the best , but they ain't spittin ( bloggin me... )
they say i'm what the game been missin ( textin me... )
they say i'm what the game been missin
they say i'm what the game been missin
real lyricist eveytime my name is mentioned
are you not entertained ! ! ! ! ! !