i think all of us have to do some soul - searching to find out how does something like this happen. and that means that we examine the laws and context for what happened , as well the specifics of the incident. but my main message is to the parents of trayvon martin. if i had a son , he'd look like trayvon
trigga man , man
dear assassinator , dear murderer
did you ever stop to think
that i coulda been a teacher , a preacher or played power forward
that i coulda been a surgeon , a father , a grandpa one day
but you , you’re a dream killer…
trigga man man trigga man man
with ya 9 millimeter , tell me
beyond the color of my skin
the hoodie on my head
did you ever stop to think
or was hatred on ya mind
trigga man
i’m supposed to be in the year book
i’m supposed to be king at the prom
maybe even get a full ride for an education
what a price what price to pay for a walk to the store
left for dead like an animal
you’re a coward and a criminal
the world's in a dark place
because of the hatred towards a dark face
it ain’t a race card thing because it's not a card race
it’s your place and my place , that will make it our place
this hate run deep before the 1800's
wear a hoodie and they could kill you that’s the way they wanted
and a man killed a boy , that’s the way they hunted
and the cops with all the laws that’s way they fronted
homicide is justified because of ya skin tone
if they left us in africa we woulda been home
think of that sucka ass trigga man
before you go and kill a black little man
insane world that the sane's in
yhey gon treat you different if you ain’t got the same skin
and that element is wack
and the sad shit about it is the president is black
seventeen - year - old jordan russell davis was fatally shot and killed by a forty - five year old man by the name of michael dunn. now apparently michael dunn was in jacksonville , florida for his son's wedding. and he pulled up next to a sports utility vehicle in a red car , and he noticed that the music was too loud - - he couldn't handle the loud music. so he rolled down his window , and he asked the guys in the car to turn it down. somehow , a verbal altercation ensued , and it gets to a point where michael dunn gets a gun , and he starts shooting at the several black men in the car , okay ? seventeen - year - old jordan russell davis was shot twice in the back of the neck and , as a result , died. authorities say , jacksonville police in specific , say that there was no gun found in the vehicle , they were unarmed , so they don't understand why michael dunn shot into the car eight or nine times , killing an unarmed seventeen year old
so he says , oh , i thought i saw a shotgun. except , he didn't