yeah yeah
we gonna send this one out
to all the niggas
that want beef. they got baby teeth
that's why you can't eat you little faggot
that primo shit , rassy kassy , goldyn chyld
ya kna'
its the r - ah - a - s , k - a - double s
ejecting airbag , wreck a nigga's bubble s - class
what's comin' nest ? let's mash
get so high , walkin' i catch jetlag
if it ain't hennessy and oj , homie miss me
keep my hairline down to the nike sign crispy
spit be , strictly mini - me bin laden's
mixed with 16 men with life in the pen ridin'
gangsta - fuck how many records you sell
get put on the missing milk carton in double xl ( meaning xxl )
and it's nothin , let's double the dare
dick so deep down ya bitch mouth , i'll cum in her hair
guns and ones in the air , niggas with stripes
shootin kites , posted on low - rider bikes
gat named russel simmons , god bless and good night
you done fucked up like crip walkin' by suge knight
that's what happens when you
reach for what you can't feel
i be the... wild goldyn chyld
come on , come on , yo
ask the crew if i'm nice , they all say true
that's what happens when you
reach for what you can't feel
i be the... wild goldyn chyld
the baddest flow... niggas know...
guess i'm a rap nigga , cause homeboy , its a wrap
commit a driveby with the music express van
and then toss the gat
hop on the red eye to nyc though - d&d linked with primo
and i'm hungry , so i'mma take what you got
throw up a dove , spit at the camera like 2pac
my rap style is sheek like two l.o.x
word on a few blocks ; my technique's too hot
i repeat , do not get it twisted
get ya heard a brick or " park " at 106 bitch
they catch me exprayin a halo , with an immitation j - lo
... ya kna' - haters lay low
who the only west coast nigga to air out kay slay mixtape tho' ?
( rassy ) mo' dirty , s - c - fou - thirty
steer with my knee , eating a plate of beef curry , beyotch !
i pop my collar , pop pistols , and pop ecstasy
boricuas call me papi , when they pop their " p "
used to pop - lock and lock and watch
pop locks and burgularize spots
pop wheelies on the red and chrome huffy
graduated to suzuki's - hot soda pop
or pop bottles at sky sushi
ask me what's poppin ? most likely your collar bone
ever had the feeling when ya by yourself ya not alone
with big brother , and big brother see you
i'm hard - headed , my dick look like r2 - d2
mini - me too - speed through in the v - 1 - 2
c - arson style , know how we do
all money is legal , dead pres to green eagle
you funny style like bernie mac , rappin like beanie siegel
goldyn chyld of the west , don't know how to act though
kicked off the up in smoke tour for scrappin with staff pro