tale of king omar bin al - nu'uman and his sons sharrkan and zau al - makan
when it was the forty - sixth night ,
" most beautiful is earth in budding bloom , * when lucid waters
course through plain and wood :
no work but his th' all great , th' all glorious , * giver of all
gifts , giver of all good ! "
" the mead is bright with what is on't * of merry maidens
debonnair :
double its beauty and its grace * those trooping damsels slender -
fair :
virgins of graceful swimming gait * ready with eye and lip to
ensnare ;
and like the tendril'd vine they loose * the rich profusion of
their hair :
shooting their shafts and arrows from * beautiful eyes beyond
compare ;
overpowering and transpiercing * every froward adversaire. "
sharrkan gazed upon the ten girls and saw in their midst a lady like the moon at fullest , with ringleted hair and forehead sheeny white , and eyes wondrous wide and black and bright , and temple locks like the scorpion's tail ; and she was perfect in essence and attributes , as the poet said of her in these couplets ,
" she beamed on my sight with a wondrous glance , * and her
straight slender stature enshamed the lance :
she burst on my sight with cheeks rosy red , * where all manner of
beauties have habitance :
and the locks on her forehead were lowering as night * whence
issues a dawn tide of happiest chance. "
when it was the forty - seventh night ,
when it was the forty - eighth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when the nazarene damsel said to sharrkan ( and he listening impatiently enow ) , " verily if sharrkan fell into my hands , i would go forth to him in the habit of a man and drag him from his saddle seat and make him my captive and lay him in bilboes , " pride and passion and knightly jealousy took possession of him and he desired to discover and declare himself and to lay on load ; but her loveliness restrained him and he began repeating ,
" an faulty of one fault the beauty prove , * her charms a thousand advocates shall move. "
so she went up and sharrkan after her ; and , when he saw the maiden's back and hinder cheeks that clashed against each other , like rollers in the rolling sea , he extemporised these couplets : - -
" for her sins is a pleader that brow , * and all hearts its fair
pleading must bow :
when i saw it i cried , " to night * the moon at its fullest doth
show ;
would deal him a throw. "
" i am not lost to prudence , but indeed * here i'm bewildered ,
what shall be my rede ?
would any aid me in mine ails of love , * by my own might and
sleight would i be free'd :
but ah ! my heart is lost and passion - shent : * to none save allah
can i trust my need ! "
" with heavy back parts , high breasts delicate , * and lissome form
that sways with swimming gait
she deftly hides love longing in her breast ; * but i may never
hide its ban and bate
now necklaced and now separate. "
when it was the forty - ninth night ,
" allah assain those eyne ! what streams of blood they shed ! * how
many an arrowy glance those lids of thine have sped.
i love all lovers who to lovers show them cure ; * 'twere wrong to
rue the love in wrong head born and bred :
haply fall hapless eye for thee no sleeping kens ! * heaven help
the hapless heart by force of thee misled !
thou doomest me to death who art my king , and i * ransom with
life the deemster who would doom me dead. "
thereupon each and every of the maidens rose up and taking an instrument , played and recited couplets in the roumi tongue ; then their mistress sang also and seeing sharrkan in ecstasies asked him , " o moslem , dost thou understand what i say ? " ; and he answered , " nay , my ecstasy cometh from the beauty of thy finger sips. " she laughed and continued , " if i sing to thee in arabic what wouldst thou do ? " " i should no longer , " quoth he , " be master of my senses. " then she took an instrument and , changing the measure , began singing these verses ,
" the smack of parting's myrrh to me , * how , then , bear patience'
aloë ?
i'm girt by ills in trinity * severance , distance ,
cruelty !
my freedom stole that fairest she , * and parting irks me
bitterly. "
" pleasure and health , good cheer , good appetite * to azzah ,
freest with our name and fame !
by allah ! would i near her off she flies * at tangent , granting
less the more i claim :
i dote on azzah , but when clear i off * my rivals , clears me too
that dearest dame ;
like wandering wight that chose for shade a cloud * which , ere
siesta done , thin air became. "
" did azzah deal behest to sun o' noon , * the judge had judged her
beauty's bestest boon ;
and girls who come to me and carp at her , * god make their rosy
cheeks her sandal - shoon !
" jamil , in holy war go fight ! " to me they say : * what war save
fight for fair ones would i e'er essay ?
to me their every word and work are mere delight , * and martyrs
crepe i all they slay in fight and fray :
an ask i , 'o buthaynah ! what's this love , i pray , * which eats
my heart ? ' quoth she ' 'twill stay for ever and aye ! '
and when i cry , 'of wits return some small display * for daily
use , ' quoth she , 'far , far 'tis fled away !
thou seekst my death ; naught else thy will can satisfy * while i
no goal espy save thee and thee alway.' "
" thou hast spoken right well , " said she , " o king's son , and jamil also spoke excellently well. but what would buthaynah have done with him that he saith in his hemistich ,
'thou seekst my death ; naught else thy will can satisfy ? ' "
" he plucks fruits of her necklace in rivalry , * and her breast -
pearls that bedded in gold mine lie.
pure water on silvern bars is her brow , * and her cheeks show
roses with rubies vie :
meseems in her eyne that the violet's hue * lies purpling set in
when the lady saw sharrkan , she stood up to him in honour and ,
taking his hand , seated him by her side and asked , " o son of king
omar bin al - nu'uman , hast thou any cunning in the game of chess ? "
" yes , " he answered , " but do not thou with me as said the poet ,
'i speak and longing love upties me and unties me ; * till with
her honey dew of inner lip she plies me :
i brought the chess board and my liefest lover plays me * with
me :
'twas as if king for castle i were fain to place me * till wilful
loss of game atwixt two queens surprise me :
and if i seek to read intent in eyes that eye me * oh man ! that
glance askance with hint of wish defies me.' "
" twixt the close tied and open wide no medium fortune knoweth , *
now ebb and flow then flow and ebb this wise her likeness
showeth.
then drink her wine the syne she's thine and smiling thou dost
find her * anon she'll fall and fare away when all thy good
forth goeth. "
they ceased not to carouse till nightfall and this day was pleasanter even than the first. when darkness set in , the lady betook her to her dormitory , leaving him alone with the hand maids ; so he threw himself on the ground and slept till dawn , when the damsels came to him with tambourines and other instruments according to custom. seeing them he roused him hastily and sat up ; and they carried him to their mistress , who came to meet him and , taking him by the hand , seated him by her side. then she asked him how he had passed his night , whereat he prayed that her life be prolonged ; and she took the lute and sang to it these verses which she improvised ,
" ne'er incline thee to part * which embitters the heart
e'en the sun when he sets * shall in pallor depart. "
when it was the fiftieth night ,
" how oft in the mellay i've cleft the array , * and given their
bravest to lions a prey :
ask of me and of them when i proved me prow * o'er creation , on
days of the foray and fray :
when i left in the onslaught their lions to lie * on the sands of
" i bade adieu , my right hand wiped my tears away , * the while my
left hand held her in a close embrace :
'fearest thou naught , ' quoth she , 'of shame ? ' i answered 'nay , *
the lover's parting day is lover's worst disgrace.' "
when it was the fifty - first night ,
'say , what shall solace one who hath nor home nor stable stead *
nor cup companion , nor a cup , nor place to house his head ? ' "
when it was the fifty - second night ,
" o spare me , thou ghazban , indeed enow for me * are heavy strokes
of time , mischance and misery !
whoredom my lord forfends to all humanity ; * quoth he , 'who
breaks my bidding hell for home shall see ! '
and if thou leave not suing me to whoredom's way * against th'
almighty's choicest gift , my chastity ,
upon my tribesmen i with might and main will call * and gather
all , however far or near they be ;
and with yamáni blade were i in pieces hewn , * ne'er shall he
sight my face who makes for villeiny ,
the face of free born come of noble folk and brave ; * what then
can be to me the seed of whoreson slave ? "
" ho thou , abrizah , mercy ! leave me not for i * of thy love and
my heart is cut to pieces by thy cruelty , * my body wasted and my
patience done to die :
from glances ravishing all hearts with witchery * reason far
flies , the while desire to thee draws nigh ;
though at thy call should armies fill the face of earth * e'en
now i'd win my wish and worlds in arms defy ! "
when it was the fifty - third night.
when it was the fifty - fourth night ,
" in love they bore me further than my force would go , * and for
them made me suffer resurrection throe :
oh , have compassion , cruel ! on this soul of mine * which , since
ye fared , is pitied by each envious foe ;
nor grudge the tender mercy of one passing glance * my case to
lighten , easing this excess of woe :
quoth i 'heart , bear this loss in patience ! ' patience cried *
'take heed ! no patience in such plight i'm wont to show.' "
then he redoubled his weeping , and the fireman said to him , " weep not , but rather praise allah for safety and recovery. " asked zau al - makan , " how far is it hence to damascus ? " answered the other , " six days' journey. " then quoth zau al - makan , " wilt thou send me thither ? " " o my lord , " quoth the stoker , " how can i allow thee to go alone , and thou a youth and a stranger to boot ? if thou would journey to damascus , i am one who will go with thee ; and if my wife will listen to and obey me and accompany me , i will take up my abode there ; for it is no light matter to part with thee. " then said he to his wife , " wilt thou travel with me to damascus of syria or wilt thou abide here , whilst i lead this my lord thither and return to thee ? for he is bent upon going to damascus of syria and , by allah , it is hard to me to part with him , and i fear for him from highway men. " replied she , " i will go with you both ; " and he rejoined , " praised be allah for accord , and we have said the last word ! " then he rose and selling all his own goods and his wife's gear , —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say ,
when it was the fifty - fifth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that the fire man and his wife agreed with zau al - makan to travel with him damascus wards. then the stoker sold his goods and his wife's gear and bought a camel and hired an ass for zau al - makan ; and they set out , and ceased not wayfaring for six days till they reached damascus. and they arrived there towards eventide ; when the fireman went forth and , as was his wont , bought some meat and drink. they had dwelt but five days in damascus , when his wife sickened and , after a short illness , was translated to the mercy of almighty allah. her death was a heavy matter to zau al - makan , for he was grown used to her as she had tended him assiduously ; and the fireman grieved for her with excessive grief. presently the prince turned to the stoker and finding him mourning , said to him , " grieve not , for at this gate we must all go in. " replied he , " allah make weal thy lot , o my son ! surely he will compensate us with his favours and cause our mourning to cease. what sayst thou , o my son , about our walking abroad to view damascus and cheer thy spirits ? " replied zau al - makan , " thy will is mine. " so the fireman arose and placed his hand in that of zau al - makan and the two walked on till they came to the stables of the viceroy of damascus , where they found camels laden with chests and carpets and brocaded stuffs , and horses ready saddled and bactrian dromedaries , while mamelukes and negro slaves and folk in a hubbub were running to and fro. quoth zau al - makan , " i wonder to whom belong all these chattels and camels and stuffs ! " so he asked one of the eunuchs , " whither this dispatching ? '' and he answered , " these are presents sent by the emir of damascus to king omar bin al - nu'uman , with the tribute of syria. " now when zau al - makan heard his father's name his eyes brimmed over with tears , and he began repeating ,
" oh ye gone from the gaze of these ridded eyne , * ye whose sight
in my spirit shall ever dwell !
your charms are gone , but this heart of me * hath no sweet , and
no pleasures its sour dispel ;
if allah's grace make us meet again , * in long drawn love - tale my
love i'll tell. "
" get thee provaunt in this world ere thou wend upon thy way , *
and know how surely death descends thy life lot to waylay :
all thy worldly goods are pride and the painfullest repine ; * all
thy worldly life is vexing , of thy soul in vain display :
say is not worldly wone like a wanderer's place of rest , * where
of day ? "
and he continued to weep and wail over his separation ; whilst the fireman also bewept the loss of his wife , yet ceased not to comfort zau al - makan till morning dawned. when the sun rose , he said to him , " meseemeth thou yearnest for thy native land ? " " yes , " replied zau al - makan , " and i can no longer tarry here ; so i will commend thee to allah's care and set out with these folk and journey with them , little by little , till i come to my mother land. " said the stoker , " and i with thee ; for of a truth i cannot bear to part with thee. i have done thee kindly service and i mean to complete it by tending thee on thy travel. " at this , zau al - makan rejoiced and said , " allah abundantly requite thee for me ! " and was pleased with the idea of their travelling together. the fireman at once went forth and bought another ass , selling the camel ; and laid in his provaunt and said to zau al - makan , " this is for thee to ride by the way ; and , when thou art weary of riding , thou canst dismount and walk. " said zau al - makan , " may allah bless thee and aid me to requite thee ! for verily thou hast dealt with me more lovingly than one with his brother. " then he waited till it was dark night , when he laid the provisions and baggage on that ass and set forth upon their journey. this much befel zau al - makan and the fireman ; but as regards what happened to his sister nuzhat al - zaman , when she left her brother in the khan where they abode and , wrapped in the old camlet , went out to seek service with some one , that she might earn wherewithal to buy him the roast meat he longed for , she fared on , weeping and knowing not whither to go , whilst her mind was occupied with thoughts of her brother and of her family and her native land. so she implored allah almighty to do away with these calamities from them and began versifying ,
" dark falls the night and passion comes sore pains to gar me
dree , * and pine upstirs those ceaseless pangs which work my
tormentry ,
and cease not separation flames my vitals to consume , * and
drives me on destruction way this sorrow's ecstacy
and longing breeds me restlessness ; desire for ever fires , * and
tears to all proclaim what i would keep in secrecy
no cunning shift is known to me a meeting to secure , * that i may
quit this sickly state , may cure my malady :
the love which blazeth in my heart is fed with fancy fuel , * the
o thou who blamest me for all befel me , 'tis enough , * patient i
bear what ever wrote the reed of doom for me :
by love i swear i'll never be consoled , no , never more ; * i swear
the oath of love's own slaves who know no perjury :
o night , to chroniclers of love the news of me declare ; * that
sleep hath fed mine eyelids of thy knowledge witness bear ! "
" time hath for his wont to upraise and debase , * nor is lasting
condition for human race :
in this world each thing hath appointed turn ; * nor may man
transgress his determined place :
how long these perils and woes ? ah woe * for a life , all woeful
in parlous case !
allah bless not the days which have laid me low * i' the world ,
with disgrace after so much grace !
my wish is baffled , my hopes cast down , * and distance forbids me
to greet his face :
o thou who passeth that dear one's door , * say for me , these
tears shall flow evermore ! "
when she had finished her verses , the badawi came up to her and , taking compassion on her , bespoke her kindly and wiped away her tears. then he gave her a barley scone and said , " i love not one who answereth at times when i am in wrath : so henceforth give me no more of these impertinent words and i will sell thee to a good man like myself , who will do well with thee , even as i have done. " " yes ; whatso thou doest is right , " answered she ; and when the night was longsome upon her and hunger burnt her , she ate very little of that barley bread. in the middle of the night the badawi gave orders for departure , —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the fifty - sixth night ,
when it was the fifty - seventh night ,
" allah , where'er thou be , his aid impart * to thee , who distant
dwellest in my heart !
allah be near thee how so far thou fare ; * ward off all shifts of
time , all dangers thwart !
mine eyes are desolate for thy vanisht sight , * and start my
tears - ah me , how fast they start !
would heaven i kenned what quarter or what land * homes thee , and
in what house and tribe thou art
a fount of life thou drain in greenth of rose , * while drink i
tear drops for my sole desert ?
an thou 'joy slumber in those hours , when i * peel 'twixt my side
and couch coals' burning smart ?
all things were easy save to part from thee , * for my sad heart
this grief is hard to dree. "
" and pity one who erst in honour throve , * and now is fallen into
sore disgrace.
she weeps and bathes her cheeks with railing tears , * and asks
'what cure can meet this fatal case ? ' "
when it was the fifty - eighth night ,
" i see all power of sleep from eyes of me hath flown ; * say , did
thy parting teach these eyne on wake to wone ?
what makes thy memory light such burnings in my heart ? * hath
every lover strength such memories to own ?
how sweet the big dropped cloud which rained on summer day ; *
'tis gone and ere i taste its sweets afar 'tis flown :
i pray the wind with windy breath to bring some news * from thee ,
to lover wightwi' love so woe begone
complains to thee a lover of all hope forlorn , * for parting
pangs can break not only heart but stone. "
and when she had ended writing the verses she continued , " these words are from her who saith that melancholy destroyeth her and that watching wasteth her ; in the murk of whose night is found no light and darkness and day are the same in her sight. she tosseth on the couch of separation and her eyes are blackened with the pencils of sleeplessness ; she watcheth the stars arise and into the gloom she strains her eyes : verily , sadness and leanness have consumed her strength and the setting forth of her case would run to length. no helper hath she but tears and she reciteth these verses ,
'no ring dove moans from home on branch in morning light , * but
shakes my very frame with sorrow's killing might :
no lover sigheth for his love or gladdeth heart * to meet his
mate , but breeds in me redoubled blight
i bear my plaint to one who has no ruth for me , * ah me , how love
can part man's mortal frame and sprite ! ' "
then her eyes welled over with tears , and she wrote also these two couplets ,
" love smote my frame so sore on parting day , * that severance
severed sleep and eyes for aye.
i waxt so lean that i am still a man , * but for my speaking , thou
wouldst never say. "
then she shed tears and wrote at the foot of the sheet , " this cometh from her who is far from her folk and her native land , the sorrowful hearted woman nuzhat al - zaman. " in fine , she folded the sheet and gave it to the merchant , who took it and kissed it and understood its contents and exclaimed , " glory to him who fashioned thee ! " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the fifty - ninth night ,
she said , it reached me , o auspicious king , that nuzhat al - zaman wrote the letter and gave it to the merchant ; and he took it and read it and understood the contents and exclaimed , " glory to him who fashioned thee ! " then he redoubled his kindness and made himself pleasant to her all that day , and when night came he sallied out to the bazar and bought some food , wherewith he fed her ; after which he carried her to the hammam and said to the bath woman , " as soon as thou hast made an end of washing her head , dress her and send and let me know of it. " and she replied " hearing is obeying. " meanwhile he fetched food and fruit and wax candles and set them on the bench in the outer room of the bath ; and when the tire woman had done washing her , she dressed her and led her out of the bath and seated her on the bench. then she sent to tell the merchant , and nuzhat al - zaman went forth to the outer room , where she found the tray spread with food and fruit. so she ate and the tire woman with her , and gave the rest to the people and keeper of the bath. then she slept till the morning , and the merchant lay the night in a place apart from her. when he aroused himself from sleep he came to her and waking her , presented her with a shift of fine stuff and a head kerchief worth a thousand diners , a suit of turkish embroidery and walking boots purfled with red gold and set with pearls and gems. moreover , he hung in each of her ears a circlet of gold with a fine pearl therein , worth a thousand diners , and threw round her neck a collar of gold with bosses of garnet and a chain of amber beads that hung down between her breasts over her navel. now to this chain were attached ten balls and nine crescents , and each crescent had in its midst a bezel of ruby , and each ball a bezel of balass : the value of the chain was three thousand diners and each of the balls was priced at twenty thousand dirhams , so that the dress she wore was worth in all a great sum of money. when she had put these on , the merchant bade her adorn herself , and she adorned herself to the utmost beauty ; then she let fall her fillet over her eyes and she fared forth with the merchant preceding her. but when folk saw her , all wondered at her beauty and exclaimed , " blessed be allah , the most excellent creator ! o lucky the man in whose house the hall be ! " and the trader ceased not walking ( and she behind him ) till they entered the palace of sultan sharrkan ; when he sought an audience and , kissing the earth between his hands , said , " o auspicious king , i have brought thee a rare gift , unmatched in this time and richly gifted with beauty and with good qualities. " quoth the king , " let me see it. " so the merchant went out and brought her , she following him till he made her stand before king sharrkan. when he beheld her , blood yearned to blood , though she had been parted from him in childhood and though he had never seen her , having only heard a long time after her birth that he had a sister called nuzhat al - zaman and a brother zau al - makan , he having been jealous of them , because of the succession. and such was the cause of his knowing little about them. then , having placed her before the presence , the merchant said , " o king of the age , besides being peerless in her time and beauty and loveliness , she is also versed in all learning , sacred and profane , including the art of government and the abstract sciences. " quoth the king to the trader , " take her price , according as thou boughtest her , and go thy ways. " " i hear and i obey , " replied the merchant ; " but first write me a patent , exempting me for ever from paying tithe on my merchandise. " said the king , " i will do this , but first tell me what price thou paidest for her. " said the merchant , " i bought her for an hundred thousand diners , and her clothes cost me another hundred thousand. " when the sultan heard these words , he declared , " i will give thee a higher price than this for her ; " and , calling his treasurer , said to him , " pay this merchant three hundred and twenty thousand ducats ; so will he have an hundred and twenty thousand diners profit. " thereupon the sultan summoned the four kazis and paid him the money in their presence and then he said , " i call you to witness that i free this my slave girl and purpose to marry her. " so the kazis wrote out the deed of emancipation and the contract of marriage , when the sultan scattered much gold on the heads of those present ; and the pages and the eunuchs picked up this largesse. then , after paying him his monies , sharrkan bade them write for the merchant a perpetual patent , exempting him from toll , tax or tithe upon his merchandise and forbidding each and every in all his government to molest him , and lastly bestowed on him a splendid dress of honour.—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the sixtieth night ,
when it was the sixty - first night ,
by open hand and ruth the youth rose to his tribe's command ; * go and do likewise for the same were easy task to thee.'
and quoth another ,
'in ruth and mildness surety lies and mercy wins respect , * and
truth is best asylum for the man of soothfast soul :
whoso for wealth of gold would win and wear the world's good
word , * on glory's course must ever be the first to gain the
goal.' "
when it was the sixty - second night ,
when it was the sixty - third night ,
when it was the sixty - fourth night ,
'i see not happiness lies in gathering gold ; * the man most pious
is man happiest :
in truth the fear of god is best of stores , * and god shall make
the pious choicely blest.'
when it was the sixty - fifth night ,
when it was the sixty - sixth night ,
when it was the sixty - seventh night ,
when it was the sixty - eighth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that king omar bin al - nu'uman wrote in his letter , " my absence while sporting and hunting endured for a whole month , and when i returned i found that thy brother and sister had taken somewhat of money and had set out with the pilgrim caravan for pilgrimage by stealth. when i knew this , the wide world narrowed on me , o my son ! but i awaited the return of the caravan , hoping that haply they would come back with it. accordingly , when the palmers appeared i asked concerning the twain , but they could give me no news of them ; so i donned mourning for them , being heavy at heart , and in sleep i have no part and i am drowned in the tears of my eyes. " then he wrote in verse ,
" that pair in image quits me not one single hour , * whom in my
heart's most honourable place i keep :
sans hope of their return i would not live one hour , * without my
dreams of them i ne'er would stretch me in sleep. "
when it was the sixty - ninth night ,
when it was the seventieth night ,
when it was the seventy - first night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that they halted in the city of hamah three days ; they then fared forwards and ceased not travelling till they reached another city. here also they halted three days and thence they travelled till they entered the province diyár bakr. here blew on them the breezes of baghdad , and zau al - makan bethought him of his father and mother and native land , and how he was returning to his sire without his sister : so he wept and sighed and complained , and his regrets grew on him , and he began improvising these couplets ,
" sweetheart ! how long must i await by so long suffering teed ? *
nor cometh messenger to tell me where thou dost abide :
ah me ! in very sooth our meeting time was short enow : * would
heaven shorter prove to me the present parting - tide !
now trend my hand and open my robe and thou within shall sight *
how wasted are the limbs of me and yet the waste i hide :
when say they 'comfort take for loss of love' i but reply * 'by
allah , till the day of doom no comfort shall betide ! ' "
thereupon said to him the fireman , " leave this weeping and wailing , for we are near the chamberlain's tent. " quoth zau al - makan , " needs must i recite somewhat of verse ; haply it may quench the fire of my heart. " " allah upon thee , " cried the other , " cease this lamentation till thou come to shine own country ; then do what thou wilt , and i will be with thee wherever thou art. " replied zau al - makan , " by allah ! i cannot forbear from this ! " then he turned his face towards baghdad and the moon was shining brightly and shedding her light on the place , and nuzhat al - zaman could not sleep that night , but was restless and called to mind her brother and wept. and while she was in tears , he heard zau al - makan weeping and improvising the following distichs ,
despaireth me
for friend who erst abode wi' me * crowning my cup with gladdest
gree :
it minds me o' one who jilted me * to mourn my bitter liberty.
say sooth , thou fair sheet lightning ! shall * we meet once more
in joy and glee ?
o blamer ! spare to me thy blame * my lord hath sent this dule to
dree ,
of friend who left me , fain to flee ; * of time that breeds
calamity :
all bliss hath fled the heart of me * since fortune proved mine
enemy.
dregs , did he :
i see me , sweetheart , dead and gone * ere i again shall gaze on
thee.
time ! prithee bring our childhood back , * restore our happy
infancy ,
when joy and safety 'joyed we * from shafts that now they shoot
at me !
who aids the hapless stranger wight , * that nights in fright and
misery ,
that wastes his days in lonely grief , * for 'time's
doomed us despite our will to bear * the hands of base bores cark
and care. "
when he ended his verse he cried out and fell down in a fainting fit. this is how it fared with him ; but as regards nuzhat al - zaman , when she heard that voice in the night , her heart was at rest and she rose and in her joy she called the chief eunuch , who said to her , " what is thy will ? " quoth she , " arise and bring me him who recited verses but now. " replied he , " of a truth i did not hear him " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the seventy - second night ,
" stand thou by the homes and hail the lords of the ruined stead ;
* cry thou for an answer , belike reply to thee shall be
sped :
if the night and absence irk thy spirit kindle a torch * wi'
repine ; and illuminate the gloom with a gleaming greed :
if the snake of the sand dunes hiss , i shall marvel not at all !
* let him bite so i bite those beauteous lips of the
luscious red :
o eden , my soul hath fled in despite of the maid i love : * had i
lost hope of heaven my heart in despair were dead. "
and he also improvised the two following distichs ,
" we were and were the days enthralled to all our wills , *
dwelling in union sweet and homed in fairest site :
who shall restore the home of the beloved , where showed * light
of the place for aye conjoined with time's
and as he ceased his verses , he shrieked three shrieks and fell senseless to the ground and the fireman rose and covered him. when nuzhat al - zaman heard the first improvisation , she called to mind her father and her mother and her brother and their whilome home ; then she wept and cried at the eunuch and said to him , " woe to thee ! he who recited the first time hath recited a second time and i heard him hard by. by allah , an thou fetch him not to me , i will assuredly rouse the chamberlain on thee , and he shall beat thee and cast thee out. but take these hundred diners and give them to the singer and bring him to me gently , and do him no hurt. if he refuse , hand to him this purse of a thousand diners , then leave him and return to me and tell me , after thou hast informed thyself of his place and his calling and what countryman he is. return quickly and linger not. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the seventy - third night ,
" i fly the carper's injury , * whose carping sorely vexeth me :
he chides and taunts me , wotting not * he burns me but more
grievously.
the blamer cries 'he is consoled ! ' * i say , 'my own dear
they ask , 'why be that land so dear ? ' * i say , 'it taught me in
love to be : '
they ask , 'what raised its dignity ? ' * i say , 'what made my
ignomy : '
whate'er the bitter cup i drain , * far be fro' me that land to
flee :
nor will i bow to those who blame , * and for such love would deal
me shame.
hardly had he made an end of his verses and come to a conclusion , when the eunuch ( who had heard him from his hiding place at his head ) came up to him ; whereupon the fireman flea end stood afar off to see what passed between them. then said the eunuch to zau al - makan , " peace be with thee , o my lord ! " " and on thee be peace , " replied zau al - makan , " and the mercy of allah and his blessings ! " " o my lord , " continued the eunuch— - and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say ,
when it was the seventy - fourth night ,
when it was the seventy - fifth night ,
" is not her love a pledge by all mankind confest ? * the house
that hometh hinda be forever blest'
her love all levels ; man can reck of naught beside ; * naught or
before or after can for man have zest
'tis though the vale is paved with musk and ambergris * that day
when hinda's footstep on its face is prest :
hail to the beauty of our camp , the pride of folk , * the dearling
who en' slaves all hearts by her behest :
allah on 'time's delight' send large dropped clouds that teem *
with genial rain but bear no thunder in their breast. "
and also these ,
" i vow to allah if at home i sight * my sister nuzhat al - zamani
highs
i'll pass the days in joyance and delight * mid bashful minions ,
maidens soft and white :
to sound of harps in various modes they smite * draining the
bowl , while eyes rain lively light
'neath half closed lids , a sipping lips red bright * by stream
bank flowing through my garden site. "
when he had finished his verse , nuzhat al - zaman lifted up a skirt of the litter curtain and looked at him. as soon as her eyes fell on his face , she knew him for certain and cried out , " o my brother ! o zau al - makan ! " he also looked at her and knew her and cried out , " o my sister ! o nuzhat al - zaman ! " then she threw herself upon him and he gathered her to his bosom and the twain fell down in a fainting fit. when the eunuch saw this case , he wondered at them and throwing over them somewhat to cover them , waited till they should recover. after a while they came to themselves , and nuzhat al - zaman rejoiced with exceeding joy : oppression and depression left her and gladness took the mastery of her , and she repeated these verses ,
" time sware my life should fare in woeful waste ; * forsworn art
comes weal and comes a welcome friend to aid ; * to him who brings
good news , rise , gird thy waist
i spurned old world tales of eden bliss ; * till came i
" long i lamented that we fell apart , * while tears repentant
railed from these eyne ;
and sware , if time unite us twain once more , * 'severance' shall
never sound from tongue of mine :
joy hath so overwhelmed me that excess * of pleasure from mine
eyes draws gouts of brine :
tears , o mine eyes , have now become your wont * ye weep for
pleasure and you weep for pine ! "
when it was the seventy - sixth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when the stoker girthed his ass for flight and bespake himself , saying , " oh would i knew what is become of him ! " ; ere he had done speaking the castrato was standing by his head and his side muscles quivered for fear and he lifted up his voice and cried , " verily he knoweth not the value of the good offices i have done him ! i believe he hath denounced me to the eunuch ( hence these pages et about me ) and he hath made me an accomplice in his crime. " then the effeminated one cried at him , saying , " who was it recited the verses ? o liar ! why didst thou say , 'i never repeated these couplets , nor do i know who repeated them ; ' when it was thy companion ? but now i will not leave thee between this place and baghdad , and what betideth thy comrade shall betide thee. " quoth the fireman , " what i feared hath befallen me. " and he repeated this couplet ,
" 'twas as i feared the coming ills discerning : * but unto allah we are all returning. "
when it was the seventy - seventh night ,
when it was the seventy - eighth night ,
when it was the seventy - ninth night ,
'ware how thou hurtest man with hurt of heart ; * 'tis hard to win
thee back the heart offended :
for hearts indeed , whence love is alien made , * like broken glass
may nevermore be mended.'
when it was the eightieth night ,
freest am i of all mankind fro' meddling wight * who , seeing
others err , self error ne'er can sight :
riches and talents are but loans to creature lent , * each wears
the cloak of that he bears in breast and sprite :
if by mistaken door attempt on aught thou make , * thou shalt go
wrong and if the door be right , go right ! '
when it was the eighty - first night ,
'be as thou wilt , for allah still is bounteous lord , * and care
dispeller dread not therefore bane and ban
to two things only never draw thee nigh , nor give * partner to
allah trouble to thy brother man.'
and how well saith the poet ,
'an thou of pious works a store neglect * and after death meet
one who did collect ,
thou shalt repent thou diddest not as he , * nor madest ready as
he did elect.'
when it was the eighty - second night ,
when it was the eighty - third night ,
day a man pointed him out to another , as he walked by and remarked , 'yonder man watcheth the whole night.' when he heard this abu hanifah said , 'i was abashed before allah to hear myself praised for what was not in me' ; so after this he used to watch the whole night. and one of the sages hath said ,
'who seeketh for pearl in the deep dives deep ; * who on high would hie robs his night of sleep.'
when it was the eighty - fourth night ,
'oh soul of me , an thou accept my rede , * thou shalt be wealthy
and of grace entire :
cast off ambitious hopes and vain desires , * how many a death was
done by vain desire ! '
when it was the eighty - fifth night ,
when it was the eighty - sixth night ,
when it was the eighty - seventh night ,
when it was the eighty - eighth night ,
when it was the eighty - ninth night ,
when it was the ninetieth night ,
" i have a sorrel steed , whose pride is fain to bear the rein , *
shall give thee what thou likest not and make thee feel his
main :
i have a handy limber spear full bright and keen of point , * upon
whose shaft the dam of death her throny seat hath ta'en :
i have a trenchant glaive of hind ; and , when i bare its face * of
scabbard " veil , from out its brow the rays of levee rain. "
when it was the ninety - first night ,
when it was the ninety - second night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that the infidels called to one another , saying , " take we vengeance wreak for luka ! " while hardub king of greece cried aloud , " ho , to our revenge for abrizah ! " thereupon king zau al - makan shouted " ho , servants of the requiting king ! : smite the children of denial and disobedience with the blanch of sword and the brown of spear ! " so the moslems returned to the infidels and plied them with the keen edged scymitar , whilst their herald cried aloud , " up , and at the foes of the faith , all ye who love the prophet elect , with hope of salvation on the day of fear , to win favour of the bountiful , the forgiving one ; for verily the garden of paradise is under the shadow of swords ! " and behold , sharrkan and his men charged down upon the infidels and cut off their retreat and wheeled and tourneyed among the ranks ; when lo ! a knight of goodly presence opened a passage through the army of unbelievers and circled hither and thither amongst the deniers , cutting and thrusting and covering the ground with heads and trunks , so that the faithless feared him and their necks bent under his lunge and hew. he was girt with two swords , his glances and his brand , and he was armed with two lances , one of bamboo cane and the other his straight wand like shape ; and his flowing hair stood him in stead of many warriors , even as saith the poet ,
locks , on day of fight and fray ,
o'er youth who bears his lance 'twixt flank and thigh , * from
many a whis kered knight to win the day. "
and as singeth another ,
" i say to him , what while he slings his sword , * 'for sword shall
serve those looks that sword like show ! '
says he , 'my sabre looks for those i love , * my sword for those
who sweets of love unknow ! ' "
when it was the ninety - third night ,
" ho thou who grovellest low before the great * nor over fording
lesser men dost blench
who gildest dross by dirham gathering , * no otter scent disguises
carrion stench !
when it was the ninety - fourth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when the old woman , zat al - dawahi , and those with her had agreed upon such words , she said , " now as soon as that which i impart shall reach the ears of king sharrkan say him further , 'hearing these words from that image we knew that the holy man was indeed of the chiefest devotees and allah's servants of purest qualities ; so we made three days' march till we came in sight of that hermitage , and then we went up to it and passed the day in buying and selling , as is the wont of merchants. as soon as day had departed our sight and night was come to darken light , we repaired to the cell wherein was the dungeon , and we heard the holy man , after chanting some verses of the koran , repeat the following couplets ,
'my heart disheartened is , my breast is strait , * and sinks my
soul in sea of bale and bate
unless escape be near i soon shall die ; * and death were better
than this doleful strait :
o lightning an thou light my home and folk , * an their still
brighter charms thy shine abate ,
say , what my path to meet them , being barred * by wars , and
barricado'd succour's gate ? '
" when once ye have brought me into the moslem camp , and i mix with them you shall see , " the old woman continued , " how i will make shift to beguile them and slay them all , even to the last man. " the nazarenes hearing whet she said , kissed her hands and set her in the chest , after they had beaten her with a grievous beating in obedience to her commands , for they saw it was incumbent on them to do her bidding in this ; then they all made for the moslem host as hath erst been said. such was the case with the damned hag , zat al - dawahi and her companions ; but as regards the mohammeden army , they indeed , after allah had given them victory over their enemies and they had plundered everything in the ships of money and hoards , all sat down to converse with one another and zau al - makan said to his brother sharrkan , " verily , allah hath granted us to prevail because of our just dealing and discipline and concord amongst ourselves ; wherefore continue , o sharrkan , to obey my commandment , in submission to allah ( be he exalted and extolled ! ) , for i mean to slay ten kings in blood revenge for my sire , to cut the throat of fifty thousand greeks and to enter constantinople. " replied sharrkan , " my life be thy ransom against death ! needs must i follow out the holy war , though i wone many a year in their country. but i have , o my brother , in damascus a daughter , named kuzia fakan , whom i love heartily for she is one of the marvels of the time and she will soon be of age.' said zau al - makan , " and i also have left my wife with child and near her time , nor do i know what allah will vouchsafe me by her. but promise me , o my brother , that if allah bless me with a son , thou wilt grant me thy daughter for wife to him , and make covenant with me and pledge me thy faith thereon. " " with love and good will , replied sharrkan ; and , stretching out his hand to his brother , he said , if she bring thee a son , i will give him my daughter kuzia fakan , to wife. " at this zau al - makan rejoiced , and they fell to congratulating each other on the victory over the enemy. and the wazir dandan also congratulated the two brothers and said to them , " know , o ye kings , that allah hath given us the victory , for that we have devoted our lives to him ( be he exalted and ex tolled ! ) ; and we have left our homes and households ; and it is my counsel that we follow up the foe and press upon him and harass him , so haply allah shall enable us to win our wishes , and we shall destroy our enemies , branch and root. if it please you , do ye go down in these ships and sail over the sea , whilst we fare forward by land and bear the brunt of battle and the thrust of fight. " and the minister dandan ceased not to urge them to combat and repeated his words who said ,
" to slay my foes is chiefest bliss i wist , * and on the courser's
back be borne a list ;
comes promising tryst a messenger from friend * full oft , when
comes the friend withouten tryst. "
and these words of another ,
" war for my mother ( an i live ) i'll take ; * spear for my brother ;
scymitar for sire
with every shag haired brave who meets his death * smiling , till
won from doom his dear desire ! "
" behold this lovely garden ! 'tis as though * spring o'er its
frame her greeny cloak had spread.
looking with fleshly eyne , thou shalt but sight * a lake whose
waters balance in their bed ,
but look with spirit eyes and lo ! shalt see * glory in every
leaf o'erwaves thy head. "
and as another saith ,
is creeping shade of tamarisk stems
round legs of tree trunks waveless roll in rings * silvern , and
blossoms are the diadems. "
when it was the ninety - fifth night ,
art thou and this is time for aid :
cast down thy rod , 'twill swallow all they wrought , * nor dread
for chapters read on fight day lines of foes , * and on their
when it was the ninety - sixth night ,
when it was the ninety - seventh night ,
when it was the ninety - eighth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when the unfaithful had seized upon king zau al - makan and the wazir dandan , they said to the two , " is there anyone else with you twain , that we may seize upon him also ? " and the wazir dandan replied , " see you not yon other man who be with us ? " they rejoined , " by the truth of the messiah and the monks and the primate and the metropolitan , we see none save you two ! " then the infidels laid shackles on their feet and set men to guard them during the night , whilst zat al - dawahi fared on and disappeared from their sight. so they fell to lamenting and saying to each other , " verily , the opposing of pious men leadeth to greater distress than this , and we are punished by the strait which hath befallen us. " so far concerning zau al - makan and the wazir dandan ; but as regards king sharrkan , he passed that night in the cavern with his comrades , and when dawned the day and he had prayed the morn prayer , he and his men made ready to do battle with the infidel and he heartened them and promised them all good. then they sallied out till they were hard upon the unbelievers and , when these saw them from afar , they cried out to them , saying , " o moslems , we have taken captives your sultan and your wazir who hath the ordering of your affairs ; and except ye leave off fighting us , we will slay you to the last man ; but an you yield yourselves we will take you to our king , who will make peace with you on condition that you quit our country and return home and harm us in naught , and we will do you no harm in aught. if ye accept , it will be well for you ; but if ye refuse there remaineth nothing for you but death. so we have told you sooth , and this is our last word to you. " now when sharrkan heard this and was certified of the captivity of his brother and the wazir dandan , he was weighed down with woe and wept ; his force failed him and , making sure of death , he said to himself , " would i knew the cause of their capture ! did they fail of respect to the holy man or disobey him , or what was the matter ? " then they sprang up to battle with the unbelievers and slew great numbers of them. the brave was known that day from craven men , and sword and spear were dyed with bloody stain ; for the infidels flocked up on them , as flies flock to drink , from hill and from plain ; but sharrkan and his men ceased not to wage the fight of those who fear not to die , nor let death hinder them from the pursuit of victory , till the valley ran gore and earth was full of the slain she bore. and when night fell the armies separated each making for his own place ; and the moslems returned to the cavern where gain and loss were manifest to them : few remained of them and there was no dependence for them but on allah and the scymitar. now there had been slain of them that day five and thirty men of the chiefest emirs , and they had killed thousands of the infidels , footmen and fighters on horse. when sharrkan saw this , the case was grievous to him and he asked his comrades " what shall we do ? " ; whereto all answered , " that which almighty allah willeth shall befal us. " on the morning of the second day , sharrkan said to the remnant of his troop , " if ye go forth to fight , not one of you will remain alive and we have but little left of food and water ; so i deem ye would do better to bare your brands and go forth and stand at the mouth of this cavern , to hinder any from entering. haply the holy man may have reached the moslem host , and may return with ten thousand horses to succour us in fight with the infidels , for belike the unfaithful may have failed to see him and those with him. " they said , this were the better course to take , and of its expediency no doubt we make. " so the troop went out and held the cavern mouth standing by its walls ; and every one of the infidels who sought to enter in , they slew. thus did they fend off the foe from the gape of the cave and they patiently supported all such assaults , till day was done and night came on dusky and dun ; —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the ninety - ninth night ,
when it was the one hundredth night ,
" be praises mine to all praiseworthy thee , * o lord , who stinted
not mine aid to be !
though was i lost abroad , thou west to me * strongest support
which vouchsafed victory :
thou gav'st me wealth and reign and goodly gifts , * and slungest
con quering sword of valiancy :
thou mad'st me blest beneath thy kingly shade , * engraced with
generous boons dealt fain and free :
thou savedst *from every fear i feared , by aid * of my wazir , the
age's noblest he !
garred us thy grace in fight to throw the greek , * who yet came
back dight in war's cramoisie :
then made i feint to fly from out the fight ; * but like grim lion
turning made them flee ,
and left on valley sole my foemen , drunk * not with old
then came the saintly hermit , and he showed * his marvels wrought
for town and wold to see ;
when slew they hero - wights who woke to dwell * in eden bowers
wherein sweet rill - lets well. "
but , when zau al - makan had made an end of versifying , his brother sharrkan congratulated him on his safety and thanked him for the deeds he had done ; after which both set out forcing their marches to rejoin their army.—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the one hundred and first night ,
so the devotee ceased not to walk among the horsemen and the footmen , like a wily fox meditating guile , and began to uplift her voice , chanting the koran and praising the compassionate one. and they continued pressing forward till they approached the camp of al - islam , where sharrkan found the moslem in conquered plight and the chamberlain upon the brink of falling back in flight , whilst the sword of greece havoc dight among the faithful , the righteous and those who work upright , —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
when it was the one hundred and second night ,
when it was the one hundred and third night ,
" on the glancing racer outracing glance * he speeds , as though he
would collar doom :
his steed's black coat is of darkest jet , * and likest night in
her nightliest gloom :
whose neigh sounds glad to the hearer's ears * like thunders
rolling in thun d'rous boom :
if he race the wind he will lead the way , * and the lightning
when it was the one hundred and fourth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that when zau al - makan went in to his brother sharrkan , he found him sitting with the holy man by his side ; so he rejoiced and drew near him and gave him joy of his recovery. answered he , " verily we are all under the benediction of this recluse nor would you have been victorious but for his prayers , indeed he felt no fear this day and he ceased not supplication for the moslems. i found strength return to me , when i heard your 'allaho akbar , ' for then i knew you to be victorious over your enemies. but now recount to me , o my brother , what befel thee. " so he told him all that had passed between him and the accursed hardub and related how he had slain him and sent him to the malediction of allah ; and sharrkan praised him and thanked him for his prowess. when zat al - dawahi heard tell of her son's death ( and she still drest as a devotee ) , her face waxed yellow and her eyes ran over with railing tears : she kept her counsel , however , and feigned to the moslems that she was glad and wept for excess of joy. but she said to herself , " by the truth of the messiah , there remaineth no profit of my life , if i burn not his heart for his brother , sharrkan , even as he hath burned my heart for king hardub , the mainstay of christendom and the hosts of crossdom ! " still she kept her secret. and the wazir dandan and king zau al - makan and the chamberlain remained sitting with sharrkan till they had dressed and salved his wound ; after which they gave him medicines and he began to recover strength ; whereat they joyed with exceeding joy and told the troops who congratulated themselves , saying , " to morrow he will ride with us and do manly devoir in the siege. " then said sharrkan to them , " ye have fought through all this day and are aweary of fight ; so it behoveth that you return to your places and sleep and not sit up. " they accepted his counsel and then each went away to his own pavilion , and none remained with sharrkan but a few servants and the old woman zat al - dawahi. he talked with her through part of the night , then he stretched himself to rest : and his servants did likewise and presently sleep overcame them all and they lay like the dead. such was the case with sharrkan and his men ; but as regards the old woman she alone abode awake while they slumbered in the tent and , looking at sharrkan she presently saw that he was drowned in sleep. thereupon she sprang to her feet , as she were a scald she bear or a speckled snake , and drew from her waist cloth a dagger so poisoned that if laid thereon it would have melted a rock. then she unsheathed the poniard and went up to sharrkan's head and she drew the knife across his throat and severed his weasand and hewed off his head from his body. and once more she sprang to her feet ; and , going the round of the sleeping servants , she cut off their heads also , lest they should awake. then she left the tent and made for the sultan's pavilion , but finding the guards on the alert , turned to that of the wazir dandan. now she found him reading the koran and when his sight fell upon her he said , " welcome to the holy man ! " hearing this from the wazir , her heart trembled and she said , " the reason of my coming hither at this time is that i heard the voice of a saint amongst allah's saints and am going to him. " then she turned her back , but the wazir said to himself , " by allah , i will follow our devotee this night ! " so he rose and walked after her ; but when the accursed old woman sensed his footsteps , she knew that he was following her : wherefore she feared the disgrace of discovery and said in herself , " unless i serve some trick upon him he will disgrace me. " so she turned and said to him from afar , " ho , thou wazir , i am going in search of this saint that i may learn who he is ; and , after learning this much , i will ask his leave for thee to visit him. then i will come back and tell thee : for i fear thine accompanying me , without having his permission , lest he take umbrage at me seeing thee in my society. " now when the wazir heard these words , he was ashamed to answer her ; so he left her and returned to his tent , and would have slept ; but sleep was not favourable to him and the world seemed heaped upon him. presently he rose and went forth from the tent saying in himself , " i will go to sharrkan and chat with him till morning. " but when he entered into sharrkan's pavilion , he found the blood running like an aqueduct and saw the servants lying with their throats cut like beasts for food. at this he cried a cry which aroused all who were asleep ; the folk hastened to him and , seeing the blood streaming , set up a clamour of weeping and wailing. then the noise awoke the sultan , who enquired what was the matter , and it was said to him , " sharrkan thy brother and his servants are murthered. " so he rose in haste and entered the tent , and found the wazir dandan shrieking aloud and he saw his brother's body without a head. thereat he swooned away and all the troops crowded around him , weeping and crying out , and so remained for a while , till he came to himself , when he looked at sharrkan and wept with sore weeping , while the wazir and rustam and bahram did the like. but the chamberlain cried and lamented more than the rest and asked leave to absent himself , such was his alarm. then said zau al - makan , " know ye who did this deed and how is it i see not the devotee , him who the things of this world hath put away ? " quoth the wazir , " and who should have been the cause of this affliction , save that devotee , that satan ? by allah , my heart abhorred him from the first , because i know that all who pretend to be absorbed in practices religious are vile and treacherous ! " and he repeated to the king the tale of how he would have followed the religious , but he forbade him , whereupon the folk broke out into a tumult of weeping and lamentation and humbled themselves before him who is ever near , him who ever answereth prayer , supplicating that he would cause the false devotee who denied allah's testimony to fall into their hands. then they laid sharrken out and buried him in the mountain aforesaid and mourned over his far - famed virtues.—and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the one hundred and fifth night ,
she said , it hath reached me , o auspicious king , that they laid sharrkan out and buried him in the mountain aforesaid and mourned over his far - famed virtues. then they looked for the opening of the city gate ; but it opened not and no sign of men appeared to them on the walls ; whereat they wondered with exceeding wonder. but king zau al - makan said , " by allah , i will not turn back from them , though i sit here for years and years , till i take blood revenge for my brother sharrkan and waste constantinople and kill the king of the nazarenes , even if death overcome me and i be at rest from this woeful world ! " then he bade be brought out the treasure taken from the monastery of matruhina ; and mustered the troops and divided the monies among them , and he left not one of them but he gave him gifts which contented him. moreover , he assembled in the presence three hundred horse of every division and said to them , " do ye send supplies to your households , for i am resolved to abide by this city , year after year , till i have taken man bote for my brother sharrkan , even if i die in this stead. " and when the army heard these words and had received his gifts of money they replied , " to hear is to obey ! " thereupon he summoned couriers and gave them letters and charged them to deliver the same , together with the monies , to the soldiers' families and inform them that all were safe and satisfied , and acquaint them saying , " we are encamped before constantinople and we will either destroy it or die ; and , albeit we be obliged to abide here months and years , we will not depart hence till we take it. " moreover , he bade the wazir dandan write to his sister , nuzhat al - zaman , and said to him , " acquaint her with what hath befallen us , and what be our situation and commend my child to her care since that , when i went out to war , my wife was near her delivery and by this time she must needs have been brought to bed ; and if she hath given birth to a boy , as i have heard say , hasten your return and bring me the acceptable news. " then he gave them somewhat of money , which they pouched and set out at once ; and all the people flocked forth to take leave of them and entrust them with the monies and the messages. after they had departed , zau al - makan turned to the wazir dandan and commanded him to advance with the army against the city walls. so the troops pushed forward , but found none on the ramparts , whereat they marvelled , while zau al - makan was troubled at the case , for he deeply mourned the severance from his brother sharrkan and he was sore perturbed about that traitor the ascetic. in this condition they abode three days without seeing anyone. so far concerning the moslems ; but as regards the greeks and the cause of their refusing to fight during these three days the case was this. as soon as zat al - dawahi had slain sharrkan , she hastened her march and reached the walls of constantinople , where she called out in the greek tongue to the guards to throw her down a rope. quoth they , " who art thou ? " ; and quoth she , " i am zat al - dawahi. " they knew her and let down a cord to which she tied herself and they drew her up ; and , when inside the city , she went in to the king afridun and said to him , " what is this i hear from the moslems ? they say that my son king hardub is slain. " he answered , " yes ; " and she shrieked out and wept right grievously and ceased not weeping thus till she made afridun and all who were present weep with her. then she told the king how she had slain sharrkan and thirty of his servants , whereat he rejoiced and thanked her ; and , kissing her hands , exhorted her to resignation for the loss of her son. said she , " by the truth of the messiah , i will not rest content with killing that dog of the moslem dogs in blood revenge for my son , a king of the kings of the age ! now there is no help for it but that i work some guile and i contrive a wile whereby to slay the sultan zau al - makan and the wazir dandan and the chamberlain and rustam and bahram and ten thousand cavaliers of the army of al - islam ; for it shall never be said that my son's head be paid with the bloodwit of sharrkan's head ; no , never ! " then said she to king afridun , " know , o king of the age , that it is my wish to set forth mourning for my son and to cut my girdle and to break the crosses. " replied afridun , " do what thou desire ; i will not gainsay thee in aught. and if thou prolong thy mourning for many days it were a little thing ; for though the moslems resolve to beleaguer us years and years , they will never win their will of us nor gain aught of us save trouble and weariness. " then the accursed one ( when she had ended with the calamity she had wrought and the ignominies which in herself she had thought ) took ink case and paper and wrote thereon : " from shawahi , zat al - dawahi , to the host of the moslems. know ye that i entered your country and duped by my cunning your nobles and at first hand i slew your king omar bin al - nu'uman in the midst of his palace. moreover , i slew , in the affair of the mountain pass and of the cave , many of your men ; and the last i killed were sharrkan and his servants. and if fortune do not stay me and satan obey me , i needs must slay me your sultan and the wazir dandan , for i am she who came to you in disguise of a recluse and who heaped upon you my devices and deceits. wherefore , an you would be in safety after this , fare ye forth at once ; and if you seek your own destruction cease not abiding for the nonce ; and though ye tarry here years and years , ye shall not do your desire on us. and so peace be yours ! " after writing her writ she devoted three days to mourning for king hardub ; arid , on the fourth , she called a knight and bade him take the letter and make it fast to a shaft and shoot it into the moslem camp. when this was done , she entered the church and gave herself up to weeping and wailing for the loss of her son , saying to him who took the kingship after him , " nothing will serve me but i must kill zau al - makan and all the nobles of al - islam. " such was the case with her ; but as regards what occurred to the moslems , all passed three days in trouble and anxiety , and on the fourth when gazing at the walls behold , they saw a knight holding a bow and about to shoot an arrow along whose side a letter was bound. so they waited till he had shot it among them and the sultan bade the wazir dandan take the missive and read it. he perused it accordingly ; and , when zau al - makan heard it to end and understood its purport , his eyes filled with tears and he shrieked for agony at her perfidy ; and the minister dandan said , " by allah , my heart shrank from her ! " quoth the sultan , " how could this whore play her tricks upon us twice ? but by the almighty i will not depart hence till i fill her cleft with molten lead and jail her with the jailing of a bird encaged , then bind her with her own hair and crucify her over the gate of constantinople. " and he called to mind his brother and wept with excessive weeping. but when zat al - dawahi arrived amongst the infidels and related to them her adventures at length , they rejoiced at her safety and at the slaying of sharrkan. there upon the moslems addressed themselves again to the siege of the city and the sultan promised his men that , if it should be taken , he would divide its treasures among them in equal parts. but he dried not his tears grieving for his brother till his body was wasted and sick , growing thin as a tooth pick. presently the wazir dandan came in to him and said , " be of good cheer and keep thine eyes cool and clear ; in very sooth thy brother died not but because his hour was come , and there is no profit in this mourning. how well saith the poet ,
" whatso is not to be no sleight shall bring to pass ; * what is to
be without a failure shall become ;
soon the becoming fortune shall be found to be , * and folly's
when it was the one hundred and sixth night ,
" they bore him bier'd , and all who followed wept * with moses'
till reached the grave which pate had made his home , * dug in
men's souls who one sole god adore :
ne'er had i thought before to see my joy * borne on the bier
which heads of bearers bore :
ah no ! nor ere they homed thee in the dust * that stars of
heaven earth ever covered o'er.
is the tomb dweller hostage of a stead , * where light and
splendour o'er thy face shall pour ?
praise to restore his life her word hath pledged : * cribbed and
confined he shall dispread the more ! "
when zau al - makan had made an end of his versifying he wept and wept with him all the troops ; then he came to the grave and threw himself upon it wild with woe , and the wazir repeated the words of the poet ,
" pain leaving life that fleets thou hast th' eternal won ; * thou
didst as whilom many a doer like thee hath done
leftest this worldly house without reproach or blame ; * ah , may
th' ex change secure thee every benison !
thou west from hostile onset shield and firm defence , * for us to
baffle shafts and whistling spears to shun.
i see this world is only cheat and vanity , * where man naught
else must seek but please the truthful one :
th' empyrean's lord allow thee bower of heavenly bliss , * and wi'
thy faithful friends the guide show goodly wone :
i bid thee last good e'en with sigh of bitter grief , * seeing the
west in woe for lack of easting sun. "
when the wazir dandan had finished his reciting , he wept with sore weeping and the tears rained from his eyes like cushioned pearls. then came forward one who had been of sharrkan's boon companions in his cups and he wept till ran in rills the drops , and he enumerated the dead man's generous qualities , reciting the following pentastichs ,
" where gone is bounty since thy hand is turned to clay ? * and i
in misery lie since thou west ta'en away.
gay ! ) , * how tears adorn my cheeks , these furrowed wrinkles
fray ?
a sight to joy shine eyes and fill thee with
by allah ne'er this heart within i spoke of thee ; * ah no ! nor
dared my sight to see thy brilliancy :
save that my tear drops sorest wound have garred me dree * yea !
and if e'er on other rest these eyne of me ,
may yearning draw their reins nor suffer sleep to see. "
and when the man stinted reciting , zau al - makan and the minister dandan wept and the whole army was moved to tears ; after which all retired to their tents , and the king turning to the wazir took counsel with him concerning the conduct of the campaign. on this wise the two passed days and nights , while zau al - makan was weighed down with grief and mourning till at last he said , " i long to hear stories and adventures of kings and tales of lover folk enslaved by love ; haply allah may make this to solace that which is on my heart of heavy anxiety , and stint and stay my weeping and wailing. " quoth the wazir , " if naught can dispel thy trouble but hearing curious tales of kings and people long gone before and stories of folk enslaved by love of yore , and so forth , this thing were easy , for i had no other business , in the lifetime of thy father ( who hath found mercy ) than to relate stories and to repeat verses to him. this very night i will tell thee a tale of a lover and his beloved , so shall thy breast be broadened. " when zau al - makan heard these words from the minister , his heart was set upon that which had been promised to him and he did nothing but watch for the coming of the night , that he might hear what the wazir dandan had to tell of the kings of yore and distracted lovers long gone before. and hardly would he believe that night had fallen ere he bade light the wax candles and the lamps and bring all that was needful of meat and drink and perfume gear , and what not ; and when all was in presence , he summoned the wazir dandan , and the emirs rustam and bahram and tarkash and the grand chamberlain ; then waited till the whole party was seated before him ; whereupon he turned to the minister and said , " know , o wazir , that night is come and hath let down over us its veil of gloom , and we desire that thou tell us those tales which thou promisedst us. " replied the wazir , " with joy and good will. " —and shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.
when it was the one hundred and seventh night ,
footnotes :
torrens in his notes cites drayton's " moon - calf' : —
bring forth the birth - stool—no , let it alone ;
she is so far beyond all compass grown ,
some other new device us needs must stead ,
or else she never can be brought to bed.
it is the " groaning - chair " of poor robin's almanac ( 1676 ) and we find it alluded to in boccaccio , the classical sedile which according to scoffers has formed the papal chair ( a curule seat ) ever since the days of pope joan , when it has been held advisable for one of the cardinals to ascertain that his holiness possesses all the instruments of virility. this " kursí al - wiládah " is of peculiar form on which the patient is seated. a most interesting essay might be written upon the various positions preferred during delivery , e.g. the wild irish still stand on all fours , like the so - called " lower animals. " amongst the moslems of waday , etc. , a cord is hung from the top of the hut , and the woman in labour holds on to it standing with her legs apart , till the midwife receives the child.
age. "
" philippi " and " alexanders. "
edit.
christian knights who commanded ten thousand men ; the tarkhan ( or
nobb ) heading four thousand , and the kaumas ( arab. káid ) two
hundred. it must not be confounded with batrak ( or
batrik ) =patriarcha. ( lane's lex. )
al - kuthayrir.
i swear by allah that trees creep onward , or that himyar beareth somewhat which he draweth along !
she then saw a man mending his sandal. but jadis disbelieved ; cassandra was slain and , when her eyes were cut out the vessels were found full of ithmid. hence al - mutanabbi sang :
" sharper - sighted than zarká of jau " ( yamámah ) .
see c. de perceval i. 101 ; arab. prov. i. 192 ; and chenery p. 381.
( the assemblies of al - hariri ; london , williams and norgate , 1867 ) .
i have made many enquiries into the true nature of ithmid and
failed to learn anything : on the upper nile the word is=kohl.
which means " flour and milk , " or " high lion. " the text alludes to
ardeshir babegan , so called because he married the daughter of
babak the shepherd , founder of the sassanides in a.d. 202. see
d , herberot , and the dabistan.
" cujus regio ejus religio " etc.
d'herbelot s.v. " aschári. "
mu'awiyah afterwards governor of bassorah , cufa and al - hijaz.
omar bin al - khattab.
there cannot be a son nobler than kuraysh ,
nor an uncle nobler than tamím.
the high minded tamín is contrasted with the mean - spirited kays , who also gave rise to a tribe ; and hence the saying concerning one absolutely inconsistent , " art thou now tamín and then kays ? "
al - yaman , " the allusion is to the south quarter , where
summer - lightning is seen. al - yaman ( always with the article ) means ,
i have said , the right - hand region to one facing the rising sun and
al - sham ( syria ) the left - hand region.
lukmans , more presently.
( high - priests ) of the shi'ah school.
those curious about these unimportant names will consult the great
biographical dictionary of ibn khallikan , translated by baron
macguckin de slane ( 1842 - 45 ) .
disc. sect. viii.
europeanised=raid , foray.
vulgar saying , " thou eatest skite ! " ( i.e. thou talkest nonsense ) .
decent english writers modify this to , " thou eatest dirt : " and lord
beaconsfield made it ridiculous by turning it into " eating sand. "
easterns to fury. i have seen a moslem wild with rage on hearing a
christian parody the opening words of the koran , " bismillahi 'l -
rahmáni 'l - rahím , mismish wa kamar al - din , " roughly translated ,
" in the name of allah , the compassionating , the compassionate ! apricots and marmalede. " the idea of the holy merde might have been suggested by the hindus : see mandeville , of the archiprotopapaton ( prelate ) carrying ox - dung and urine to the king , who therewith anoints his brow and breast , &c. and , incredible to relate , this is still practiced after a fashion by the parsis , one of the most progressive and the sharpest witted of asiatic races.
labbayk' allahumma , labbayk' !
lá sharíka lake , labbayk' !
inna 'l - hamda w'al ni'amata lake wa'l mulk !
labbayk' allahumma , labbayk' !
some add " here am i , and i honour thee , the son of thy two slaves ; beneficence and good are all between thy hands. " with the " talbiyah " the pilgrims should bless the prophet , pray allah to grant heaven and exclaim , " by thy mercy spare us from the pains of hell - fire ! " ( pilgrimage iii. 232. ) labbayka occurs in the verses attributed to caliph ali ; so labba=he faced , and yalubbu=it faces ( as one house faces another ) ; lastly , he professed submission to allah ; in which sense , together with the verbal noun " talbiyah , " it is used by al - hanri ( pref. and ass. of su'adah ) .
barnabas , chaps. vii.
badawi binds round his legs , i believe to keep off cramp.
( pilgrimage iii. 78 ) .
god. ) ; technically called " tahlíl. "
arab. form of the persian " chambar. "
" sa - " points to one which may be very remote.