in the spirit of the nba finals , genius hit the court to determine whose name is dropped more often in rap music : lebron james or stephen curry. while golden state warriors point guard stephen curry has been the storyline of the 2014 - 15 season , the debate between curry and cleveland's lebron james has been heated. does king james still reign supreme , or should he watch the throne ?
in true basketball fashion , we played first to eleven - who's your money on ?
lebron ( 1 - 0 )
went from most hated to the champion god flow / i guess that's a feeling only me and lebron know - kanye west , " new god flow "
steph ( 1 - 1 )
i been steph curry with the shot / been cookin' with the sauce , chef , curry with the pot , boy - drake , " 0 to 100/the catch up "
lebron ( 2 - 1 )
yeah , i'm talking lebron , we ball in our family tree - jay z , " clique "
steph ( 2 - 2 )
my gun splash brothers , i call 'em curry and klay - jadakiss , " block work "
lebron ( 3 - 2 )
if it's the finals i'm balling like i'm lebron now - meek mill , " levels "
steph ( 3 - 3 )
just like wokcano , bitch i'm curry'd up - chief keef , " faneto "
lebron ( 4 - 3 )
hood phenomenon , the lebron of rhyme - kanye west , " devil in a new dress "
steph ( 4 - 4 )
wrote a story so stephen curry : how it feel to be golden ? - childish gambino , " candler road "
lebron ( 5 - 4 )
some girls are the lebron james of mind games - big sean , " deserve it "
steph ( 5 - 5 )
only here for the weekend , bring a freak friend in a hurry / always looking for that three , steph curry - mike stud , " movie "
lebron ( 6 - 5 )
cause we all just ticking time bombs , got a lambo like lebron's mom - childish gambino , " v. 3005 "
steph ( 6 - 6 )
stephen curry , got 30 in the luggage - tyga , " word on street "
lebron ( 7 - 6 )
( ain’t that where the heat play ? niggas hate ballas these days ) yep ! / ain’t that like lebron james ? ( ain’t that just like d. wade ? wait ) - jay z & kanye west , " gotta have it "
steph ( 7 - 7 )
my young boys shooters , steph curry in the playoffs - french montana , " hard work "
lebron ( 8 - 7 )
fall back like lebron's hairline against the mavericks , he lost - tyler , the creator , " martians vs. goblins "
steph ( 8 - 8 )
keep the 30 on me like i'm stephen curry - montana of 300 , " chiraq ( remix ) "
lebron ( 9 - 8 )
fuck them haters and fuck them hoes , a championship win is the aftermath , ask lebron - big k.r.i.t , " 1 train "
lebron ( 10 - 8 )
lebron shit , i was in that 6 after 23 - wale , " ambition "
lebron ( 11 - 8 )
if jeezy's paying lebron , i’m paying dwyane wade - jay z , " empire state of mind "
while james may have won the battle with curry , we added a twist. who's more relevant : stephen curry , lebron james , or his airness , michael jordan ? sorry lebron , according to rap stats™ , michael jordan is still the most name - dropped basketball player in rap. maybe next year !
bonusif you still can't decide who the most relevant basketball player in rap is , let the two men speak for themselves ; both lebron and curry have showcased their skills on the mic before
say what you want about the king /
got money , got cribs , got whips , and oh yeah nigga , got two rings ! - lebron james , " fuckwithmeyouknowigotit ( freestyle ) "
there's sunday brunch's golden rule / last night's girl thinks you're a tool / awkward eye contact just isn't cool / your boys' call outs are way too cruel - stephen curry , " i love commons "
can't get enough ? the curry family remixed drake's " 0 to 100/the catch up " in december 2014
i'm the real chef curry with the pot , boy / stove is gettin' hot , boy / olive oil by the box , boy / avocados for the guac , boy - curry family , " chef curry with the pot "