she was anemic , i told her i was hemochromatosis
she don't believe it
and now she acting like she don't know me
but let me take it to the back room , let me take it to the tippy top
let me live my dreams then stop
let me get high when you lick my lips
let me get by when you talk that shit
let me go fuck myself , right ?
that's what you mean when you stopped responding ?
waited all night but i still got nothing. fuck it , i'm like fuck you women
woah , w - w - w - why you gotta do that ?
why you gotta play me everyday and put me through that ?
why you gotta tell me that you love me then leave
w - w - why you gotta gimme gimme gimme your disease
and i tellem like
*fuck you i'm out* x4
*time to go and wild out*
*fuck you i'm out* x4
*time to go and wild out*
*fuck you i'm out* x4
*time to go and wild out*
gone in a blink of an eye
and my eyes leak in amazement
cuz if i gotta ride switch sides i pray i die and i hit the pavement
cuz i ride for you , do i die for you ?
baby girl and you know ain’t shit to play with
well if i watch you , beg to me “can’t you just stay a bit ? ”
but if i left would you get struck when you know this shit is dangerous
all i wanna do , all i’m gunna do is hold you close cuz time is wastin’
and i know it gets hard sometimes , i can’t lie i still need my baby
you got me chasin’ you , but please don’t give me the run - around
i know what i said , i don’t mean it but i don’t dumb it down
i’ll take a night on the town
uh , uh , uh , uh , yeah
so many bad bitches up in my room
looking up at the moon
i'm on that top down questioning myslef like , what the fuck am i doing ?
cos' i was 15 , just a normal kid
making beats by myself to escape the depression
put it on youtube then i start flexin'
now everybody just wanna make checks , and
wanna have sex and do drugs
wanna buy cribs with new rugs
wanna be so damn famous
but , do i even want this shit ?
there's a reason that nobody talkin' this shit
cos' it's boring as fuck , when you vibing this shit
in the crowd , you took mad e with your friends
witcha' friends on the weekends cos' you don't see no ends
they call you a hypocrite
because i made a song and they depict every line that i spit
and they shit , and they find that i write all the shit
and producing it , like , yeah right when i spit like
shit the fuck up with all your emails and details
telling me that i need help
and who the fuck gave you the right
to sit here and tell me a song i should write ?
so i could all these angers bottled up
but on the other side i'm just a normal kid
to a couple people i care about
and they're all shocked when they see what i did in a video
and i ask some girl to date , but
when we hang out i'm stressed
i get texts from a intern , from a record label
telling me that i ain't got no good tracks
then when i text her the next day
she don't wanna talk cos' she'd rather run away cos'
that's just how the game goes
so i sit and figure out how to have both
a real life , and a rap life
with a jackknife whammed both sides out like
i don't even have nothing left so i send her a text like
fuck you i'm out