sidney reynolds iv
( 9/18/2013 )
mon - wen
this article i read is based on miami heat chances of three repeating this year nba finals. steve kerr the former chicago bulls point guard shared his comment and predictions with the world saying“emotionally , it’s just exhausting to keep doing it year after year , particularly when you have to deal with everything miami has to deal with on a daily basis , just the constant critiquing and scrutiny on the team , and then you factor in the injuries with wade and bosh and their health. i don’t think miami will get out of the east this year.” this is his predictions about the year finals , i remind you steve is a five or six time nba champion.
monday 9/23/13
flu is an infection caused by the influenza virus. it is a bad virus.
tuesday 9/24/13
we’re going to find out if lebron james , dwyane wade , chris bosh and the miami heat are fully prepared for the challenge that is trying to three - peat.
we’ll see if dwight howard and the young group of stars in houston are the perfect fit the big fella ( and the rockets’ brass ) believed them to be in free agency.
we’ll see exactly where stars like derrick rose , kobe bryant , russell westbrook , rajon rondo and others are in their respective rehabilitation processes from injuries that wiped out some , and in rose’s case the entire , 2012 - 13 season.
9/25/13 wed
jay - z how he is involve in the rap game and how he inspired young black american males and females to be a famous rappers.
thursday 9/26/13
gun control
the united states is the leader in gun deaths among industrial nations. this unenviable distinction has resulted in various gun - control laws at the federal and state levels that seek to reduce crime and violence by restricting private gun ownership. supporters of gun control would like even tighter restrictions on the sale and circulation of firearms.
friday 9/27/13
the feud is real. the feud between dwyane wade and kevin durant is very real this dispute is not stage. the conflict started when the top 10 active nba player list was published by sports illustrated. durant stated that his former teammate james harden should have replaced wade in the top ten list. therefore dwyane responded back saying " note to self. make him respect your place in history ... again. " i'll have more information about the feud in my next journal entry.