my niggas 7x
chorus : 1x
these my niggas ha , all my niggas what
ballin niggas ha , these my niggas what
all my niggas ha , ballin niggas what
real ass niggas ha , these my niggas what
these my nigga ha , all my niggas what
ballin niggas ha , these my niggas what
tru azz niggas ha , real azz niggas what
ballin niggas ha , these my niggaaaz
verse 1 : beelow
i roll with nothing but the rawest azz niggas
that be watching my back
some down ass niggas that ain't scared to shoot back
step up boy and put yo boots on
time to pay the price , you scared then get the fuck on
boy , come and get these niggas on these thugged out tracks
a million records sold , a million niggas got my back
see them boys in the club , them my niggas
see them boys posted on the block , them my niggas
so nigga watch them boyz with the frowned up face
find the rawest ballin niggas in the strangest place
you never know which one of my niggas be on yo side
you never know which one of my niggas ready to ride
you think you got 'em sewed up , them my niggas
you think you got 'em barred out , them my niggas
you think you got me roped off , them my niggas
my niggaz , my niggaz , my niggaaaz
chorus 1x
verse 2 : ? ? ?
nigga i gives a fuck how you play it
fuck where you from , fuck what you do
fuck what you did , fuck you is , and motherfuck how you feel
nigga you ain't saying shit , what you tryin' to do
scare me motherfucker you
i done told you once before don't make me ice yo bitch ass
keep talking that ho shit , and lose yo face wit the quick fast
you come at me wrong you going the wrong fucking way
bitch i was born and raise in the land of trigga play
now get yo mind right nigga
we bout dome checking , cracking domes
ain't no fucking round over here
see that a.k. ain't taking nann short
you can't run , you can't hide , once you up in it you gettin' broke off
see that big bitch ain't playin' , that big bitch ain't cool
that big bitch off in the hands of a motherfucking fool
we comin' through , shit these my niggas , all my niggas
all my ballin' azz niggas
verse 3 : ? ? ?
ryde or dye , these niggas ain't doing shit but point people out
they come to me to get high
fucking let me breathe bitch , back yo ass up
motherfucker you better realize , you fucking with a nutt
they wanna smoke my weed , drink my liquor
fuck my hoes and all
floss out every night , but these niggas ain't ready to ball
i'm gone tell you to yo face if you ackin' like a bitch
and that's one of the fucking reasons you ain't never had shit
me , i hustla for my b's and ain't no taking wit mine
you turn the lights off in the city bitch i'm still gone shine
i sit back and recline , in my bed and wine
live my life to the fullest
my nigga ? ? ? ? ? ?
bitch i'm ballin' big tyme
hear my motherfuckin' word , i'm hollin' " fuck dem other niggas "
i kick they azz to the curb
so i can gets herb , then gets heard
relax my fucking back ? ? ?
get my dick suck while smoking on some killer herb
and you heard how i rush ya , not wit that dumb shit
nigga bring ya whole click , i'm hollin " fuck who u come wit "
nigga i'm the king pin , the big cahouna
nigga i done been there and did that
i'm born to be a baller
chorus 1x
verse 4 : ? ? ?
my niggas all about the paper
make moves and pull capels
we don't see shit unless a motherfucker pay us
look , its all real , pumping shit that you can all feel
the rawest deal , hard hitters , fuck with ya'll feel
we all peel , we all hit caps with big gats
and smoke big sacks , stack the paper and sit back
we did that
leave a motherfucker with his shit cracked
then dare the nigga to come back
when you here that click clack , better show me where yo shit at
nigga , i'm doing bad i got to get that , nigga
you ain't ready for the kick back nigga
i bust ya'll up with it
in the brc , down for the fuckin' south wit it
now they got some niggas thats sweeter than a fragrance
in and out our business like a fucking free agent
this my last time saying it
forever ballin off the top like in a knot
you better watch who u playing wit
verse 5 : ? ? ?
lauch the k's , throw the gernades
if you under 35 get the fuck out my way
nigga i chose the battle ground
me and my niggas lay it down
wherever you caught slippin' thats where u be found
you see me and my niggas we bust ho's
you see me and my niggas ride on chrome
you see me and my niggas flex on phone
you see me and my niggas like al capone
you see me and my niggas we to strong
you fuck with me and my niggas , you won't live long
you see me and my niggas a run in ya home
you better watch ya back boy its own , its own
chorus repeats until fade