yeah , yeah , hey , hey hey
r.i.p. pooh bear , that's my dead homie
fuck that other shit , hey , let's get this bread homie
remember when they could catch a charge down in atlanta
they underestimate me cause i'm comin' from alabama
martin lee anderson he ain't even have a chance
they beat him in that boot camp 'til he died in that ambulance
that boy was only fifteen years old , fuck what they say he did
so tell me how i'm 'posed to feel when police killin' kids ?
and then we can't get a job , ridin' we get them pounds
if it ain't that coke then we get that 'dro and break it down
see that ice , the dope man paradise
boy better think twice , that dope have you doin' life
they tore down the projects , so where we gon' move next ?
they takin' them food stamps , they stop government checks
hey , money my motivator , my mouth my money maker
naw i don't see them haters , so let's go get this paper
yeah when you look at us just think about it , we don't own nothin'
if we get money , we got a lil' few dollars , but our whole family tore up nigga
you gettin' money for the people in ya family that ain't got nothin'
when it's all said and done , what do you own ? you don't own nothin' , you
don't own you... the nigga playin' basketball , he don't own that jersey , he can't
even be in a commercial wit' his name on the back , so when it's really all
said and done , what did you do this for ? what difference did you make ?
you see how the world changin' ? yeah , they left saddam hangin'
wish they just kill 'em all so now the middle east they bangin'
preachers in that pulpit , say they teach that bullshit
so know how we know it's bullshit ? same niggas i went to school wit'
grabbin' on yo' nuts and disrespectin' get you merked
them young niggas got pistol grips , they been about they killin' shit
but they all some hypocrites , haters they won't let me be
when i come up to them gates , i hope you say you heard of me
now kendrick curtis gone , them angels took him home
they gave my brother ten years , the system did him wrong
now we convicted felons , because they caught us sellin'
and nine times out of ten yo' friend the one who tellin'
i wanna go to heaven , up to that promised land
i need another chance , i wanna meet that man
money my motivator , my mouth my money maker
no i don't see you haters , so let's go get this paper
yeah ! surprise niggas ! hey we ? ? ? nigga ! everybody talkin' 'bout they gettin'
money... y'all niggas ain't gettin' no muthafuckin' money nigga ! i got
millions nigga and i'm still broke nigga cause that ain't no mutafuckin' money !
y'all playin' right into these muthafuckin' hands... risk ya life
everyday for some bullshit ! huh nigga ? what yo' bank account say nigga ?
oh that's all ? haha !
they shippin' them boys off , they fightin' in iraq
it's soldiers in that war that ain't never gon' make it back
niggas this the battlefield , fake niggas scream keep it real
yeah yeah , rob , steal , anything to pay them bills
hey nigga times harder , so we grind harder
we takin' chances wit' that coke comin' 'cross that water
tryin' to get up out this ghetto life ain't gotta be this way
them pigs they came and kicked my mama do' in yesterday
i prayed a thousand nights , i did a hundred crimes
and now i'm beggin' lord that you don't let me down this time
money my motivator , my mouth my money maker
no i don't see them haters , so let's go get this paper
our father who art in heaven , please lord forgive me for that crack
sellin'... thou kingdom come , thou will be done , these niggas dumb
yeah nigga gave my brother ten years nigga... what the
fuck you s'posed to do wit' that nigga they gave my uncle twenty years nigga
matter fact they gave my cousin life nigga... i can tell ya how i feel nigga
be on that muthafuckin' stand nigga lookin' the muthafuckin' judge in they
face nigga... and he gon' tell you some stupid shit like " life " nigga
they sendin' y'all niggas on vacation nigga 'cross the nation nigga , y'all
niggas caught up in the muthafuckin' hype nigga... sellin' that white
nigga... i been there , done that nigga nigga i'm from mobile nigga they call that
bitch ? ? ? city nigga , you bring yo' black ass there nigga , you ain't gon' make it
nigga... you guaranteed to go to muhfuckin' prison bein' black where i'm from
nigga i come from the mutafuckin' impossible nigga now y'all niggas gotta
deal wit' me nigga i'm here ! zone 4 new muthafuckin' money nigga d boy squad
rich boy ! polow da donnnnnnn ! yeah !