my girlfirend always number one on my side
but lately all we ever do is argue and fight
she said she can't imagine her becoming a wife
marrying a rappers no longer what she wants in her life
i told her , i would go and get my ged
even got a 9 - 5 flippin' burgers and fries
tryna show her i'm dedicated and never want to separate
from her cuz all i want is me and her to survive
we ain't ain't even makin love anymore , and i'm sure its a faze
but she just lays there and reads in bed
and me feet is tired from work instead of tryna flirt
i would rather go and smoke some weed instead
been a month now ever since the day she left
looked at the bedroom dresser and saw the note
said she loved me but she needed a break i guess
i'll leave it to fate but i'm praying that ain't all she wrote
i wonder how...
how do you go to sleep at night ( sleep at night )
if i'm not the one sleeping with you ( with you )
bitch didn't i treat you right yeah that's how the story goes ( hey )
wasn't i always there for you ( there for you )
now you just another song for me to write ( me to write )
a lullaby , so let me sharpen up my number 2 ( number 2 )
so how do you go to sleep at night , bitch
if i'm not the one sleeping with you
you said that we were taking a break
how the fuck is that breaking up for good
on your facebook page i see your status is 'single'
you had some pictures of me an you in your photo album
and all i see is shit wit' you hanging out with the same dude
posin with ur camera phone
what the fuck that motherfucker got sandals on ? ! ?
are you kidding me ! ? !
i been drinking constantly drowing in my misery
and you been out fucking somebody else , not even missing me ? ?
what about all the history that we had with each other ?
everything is damaged way too bad to recover
somebody else has had his dick in you stickin you
lil' dispicable bitch and theres no way we can get back with each other
bitch ! i always figured that our love would be timeless
think about when we stayed with the fam in orlando
drunk as shit in the mountains renting the honeymoon cabin
never happen gotta put it behind us , shit
well i hope its what you wanted you lying bitch
hope his dick is bigger than mine is
hope you finally got somebody who got an education
not wasting his time rapping following his dreams like i did
i wish that you and him would get in a car wreck or maybe catch a std
but i should be happy for you to fly away and just be free
but the memory won't let me be
i'm still wondering how...
how do you go to sleep at night ( sleep at night )
if i'm not the one sleeping with you ( with you )
bitch didn't i treat you right yeah that's how the story goes ( hey )
wasn't i always there for you ( there for you )
now you just another song for me to write ( me to write )
a lullaby , so let me sharpen up my number 2 ( number 2 )
so how do you go to sleep at night , bitch
if i'm not the one sleeping with you