what can i do ? i got the post 9/11 blues
on the telly nothin but the post 9/11 news
war , iraq , suicide bombs
stop hogging the limelight
and make some room for my songs ! !
anyway its all re - runs
we need a new war , bush go get iran , i heard them talking ’bout your mum !
change the channel , watch some telly for kids , but what's this ?
‘hi kids welcome to fun - fun - fundamentalist’
in the breaks , nike’s advertising bomb - proof kicks
they're even showing bin laden’s cave on cribs !
so i picked up a respectable magazine
it told me about the new post 9/11 categories -
israeli fighters are soldiers , irish are paramilitary
and darkie ones are terrorists - how simple can it be ?
but not me.. my friends go : " riz is still one of us "
but if i haven't shaved , they won't sit with me on the bus !
everybody do the post 9/11 dance
look scared and shake your arse while the bombs go blast
everybody shake your post 9/11 thong
so the dossier was wrong
jack some oil , drop a bomb
sing a song , sing along
bush and blair in a tree
k - i - l - l - i - n - g
shave your beard if you’re brown , and you best salute the crown
or they’ll do you like brazilians and shoot your arse down
post 9/11 getting around can be expensive
cost twelve dead iraqis for a litre of unleaded
and even green cross codes all changed
they just teach kids 'duck around low flying planes'
and on the tube if you see a dude with a rucksack
and a beard , move carriages mate - fuck that !
they cancelled xmas cos of santa claus’ beard
his magic red sack got confiscated as a suspect package
no need for halloween , 9/11s more scary
osama bin goblin eats kids and he’s hairy
hear a knockin’ on the door at early dawn , in the dark
it’s mi6 they’ll trick or treat you to a week in belmarsh
forget guy fawkes , he’s lame
gunpowder plots don't really compare to planes
so no bonfire , halloween or christmas , they’re done
we’ll do it all on one day , merry nine one one
post 9/11 policy might seem harsh
but it’s the terrorists fault we got id cards
and the congestion charge
that they’re extending far
and electronic tags on the chav childrens arms
course we need belmarsh and fuck 28 days
we should put the whole of oldham in its own fuckin’ cage
move hounslow underground so nothing could go wrong
luton's already moving , bradford's already gone
we’re all suspects so literally , be watching your back
i farted and got arrested for a chemical attack
dropped some litter on the street and i caused a bomb scare
but when i told police my name was john
they thought they caught the wrong bredda
but its ok
post 9/11 i been getting paid
playing terrorists on telly , getting songs made
'but will it get airplay geeza ? '
well , if bbc don't want it i’ll send it to al - jazeera