nicolas fouquet , louis xiv's finance minister in the first years of his reign , was a generous man who loved lavish parties , pretty women , and poetry. he also loved money , for he led an extravagant lifestyle. fouquet was clever and very much indispensable to the king , so when the prime minister , jules mazarin , died , in 1661 , the finance minister expected to be name the successor. instead , the king decided to abolish the position. this and other signs made fouquet suspect that he was falling out of favor , and so he decided to ingratiate himself with the king by staging the most spectacular party the world had ever seen. the party's ostensible purpose would be to commemorate the completion of fouquet's chateau , vaux - le - vicomte , but its real function was to pay tribute to the king , the guest of honor.
the most brilliant nobility of europe and some of the greatest minds of the time - - la fontaine , la rochefoucauld , madame de sevigne - - attended the party. moliere wrote a play for the occasion , in which he himself was to perform at the evening's conclusion. the party began with a lavish seven - course dinner , featuring foods from the orient never before tasted in france , as well as new dishes created especially for the night. the meal was accompanied with music commissioned by fouquet to honor the king.
after dinner there was a promenade through the chateau's gardens. the grounds and fountains of vaux - le - vicomte were to be the inspiration for versailles.
fouquet personally accompanied the young king through the geometrically aligned arrangements of shrubbery and flower beds. arriving at the gardens' canals , they witness a fireworks display , which was followed by the performance of moliere's play. the party ran well into the night and everyone agreed it was the most amazing affair they had ever attended.
the next day , fouquet was arrested by the king's head musketeer , d'artagnan. three months later he went on trial for stealing from the country's treasury. ( actually , most of the stealing he was accused of he had done on the king's behalf and with the king's permission. ) fouquet was found guilty and sent to the most isolated prison in france , high in the pyrenees mountains , where he spent the last twenty years of his life in solitary confinement.