louis xiv , the sun king , was a proud and arrogant man who wanted to be the center of attention at all times ; he could not countenance being outdone in lavishness by anyone , and certainly not his finance minister. to succeed fouquet , louis chose jean - baptise colbert , a man famous for his parsimony and for giving the dullest parties in paris. colbert made sure that any money liberated from the treasury went straight into louis's hands. with the money , louis built a palace even more magnificent than fouquet's - - the glorious palace of versailles. he used the same architects , decorators , and garden designer. and at versailles , louis hosted parties even more extravagant than the one that cost fouquet his freedom.
let us examine the situation. the evening of the party , as fouquet presented spectacle on spectacle to louis , each more magnificent than the one before , he imagined the affair was demonstrating his loyalty and devotion to the king. not only did he think the party would put him back in the king's favor , he thought it would show his good taste , his connections , and his popularity , making him indispensable to the king and demonstrating that he would make an excellent prime minister. instead , however , each new spectacle , each appreciative smile bestowed by the guests on fouquet , made it seem to louis that his own friends and subjects were more charmed by the finance minister than by the king himself , and that fouquet was actually flaunting his wealth and power. rather than flattering louis xiv , fouquet's elaborate party offended the king's vanity. louis would not admit this to anyone , of course - - instead , he found a convenient excuse to rid himself of a man who had inadvertently made him feel insecure.
such is the fate , in some form or another , of all those who unbalance the master's sense of self , poke holes in his vanity , or make him doubt his preeminence.
" when the evening began , fouquet was at the top of the world. by the time it had ended , he was at the bottom. " - voltaire , 1694 - 1778