hoooooooooh yea
oooooh yeah yeah , ooh !
she wants you for your pimp juice
i can't take it , cause she's gon' break me for my pimp juice
i think i better cut her loose
she wants me for my pimp juice
think i better cut her loose !
ooooooooh
i'm still in that , seventy - four , the coupe in deville
still got the seats , the leather , wood on the wheel ( won'tcha )
one touch on my sunroof - but mama leave it alone now
can't you see it ? it's goin back on it's own now
( ooooooooh - oooh ! ) that's how we do it baby
( ahh yeah.. ) seven dayy - ayyys
.. we hustle three - sixty - five
i tell ya - winter spring and fall , in the summer we ride
( oooh ) still actin like you never seen it before - before
like them country boys ain't got no dough
( chick please ) get in
( dust your shoes off ) befo' you touch that flo'
cause you wanna put your feet on my rug ( don'tcha ? )
i say you look to put your feet on my rug ( don'tcha ? )
you're in a hurry ( slow down , ohh yeah )
you ain't from russia , uh - uh.. ooh !
pimp juice ( uh - uhh uh.. uh - uhh uh )
i think i need to let her loose ( uh - uhh uh )
( i tell ya ) this old lady ( oh man ) she's so shady
( ooooh , uh - uhh uh.. ) yeah ( uh - uhh uh.. uh - uhh uh )
( i tell ya ) i can't take it ( no no )
cause she's gon' break me ( yeah )
i'm still - clean as a whistle , sharp as a razor ( uh - huh )
in anythang from vokal to the gators ( now listen )
still play the haters ( oww ! ) like they should be played
and i'm quick to lay a lady ( oww ! ) if she want no delays
still got the fade , still thinkin 'bout braids ( 'bout braids )
see cats with braids steady switchin to fades ( oh - oh - oh )
that's just the pimp juice jackin - jackin
if we were hoopin , i'd be yellin " they hackin - they hackin "
and i see you momma , in your dolce gabbana ( woo ! )
gucci and prada boo you look even hotter
the lucciana ain't no problem for poppa
shoppin sprees , got the keys , if you want it i gotta
so you look to put your feet on my rug ( don'tcha ? )
i say you wanna put your feet on my rug ( don'tcha ? )
you're in a hurry ( slow down , ohh yeah )
i send you green bay packin about my
see now your pimp juice is anything , attract the opposite sex
i'm talkin 'bout money , fame , or straight intellect
it don't matter , see women got the pimp juice too
come to think about it - dirty , they got mo' than we do
they got mo' ( juice in they walk ) they got mo' ( juice in they talk )
and if you look they got ( juice in they pants ) you be like , damn !
i tell you man it's a cryin shame , cryin shame
.. how women out herre use , they use the juice in vein - you hear me mayne
pimp juice is color blind , color blind - color blind
you find it work on all color creeds and kinds ( whoah - ohhh )
from ages 50 right down to 9 - down to 9
yo it's the mayor , mr. biggs , uh - uh - yo they won't resign ( watch me recline )
cause you wanna put your feet on my rug ( don'tcha ? )
i say you go to put your feet on my rug ( don'tcha ? )
you're in a hurry ( slow down , ohh yeah )
stand on my left boo.. c'mon !
{*ron isley harmonizes until fade*}