aw man
she hit you with that 5 minutes ?
you know what that mean , right ?
that mean you wasn’t fresh enough
let me show you how to get on my level
follow me
she want that 5 minute freshen up
you tried to holla , homie , but you wasn’t fresh enough
that’s how i know i’m a professional
six 0′s on the left side of a decimal
( 2x )
now look at me
i’m in that gold lamborghini drop
i’m rollin’ these haters’ll never see me stop
i’m dealin’ in euros – i call that “kiwi guap”
exotic bills for my exotic wheels
exotic meals – i call that opulence
i’m talkin’ wall street money you just an occupant
i’m in that 1 percent
over a hundred grand ?
i don’t trust a bank either – it’s in a rubber band
f - d - i - c
somebody bring the rosé to the v - i - p
somebody tell the dj play some b - i - g
cuz that’s what i’m feelin’ like
we gon’ act the fool tonight
we gon’ mess around and end up dipping’ in the pool tonight
so who go stop us ?
the a - team , b.a. baracus
she tweetin’ a picture to put on lockerz
so turn around and shake it just like a pair of maracas
oh you a baller , homie – where your 0′s at ?
where your hoes at , where your designer clothes at ?
( show me where they at ! )
where your foreign cars ?
you say your time is money , homie – where’s your audemars ?
30 grand for a show – that keep me independent
she into money , she ain’t into you , she into spendin’
that mean she rollin’ wit whoever winnin’
on vacation in winter we rockin’ summer linen
in that perfect weather , i’m talking 83
why they treat me like a boss is ’cause i paid to be
and i made the beat , i’m talkin’ a to z
the fresh prince of new york , she my jada p
and when we movin’ they snapping’ pictures like jay & b
we on the internet hoppin’ up out that amg
and it feel good – that’s how i know i made it
overpaid at the same time as i’m underrated
i’m livin’ good ( good , good , good )
but don’t get it confused
as a titan , i had to get used to bein’ sued
don’t believe everything you read in the f*ckin’ news
‘cause these haters’ll really prefer to see you lose
they cheerin’ but really prefer to see you boo’d
that’s why i don’t give no comment in these interviews
i’m good – i just handle my business
credit score is amazin’ , homie , god as my witness
yeah – thou shall not test
you a make - believe monster , homie , you loch ness
and you missed the damn train , man , you got left
you ain’t even in the game screamin’ you got next
please – you got lawyers , homie ?
i got lawyers too
i’m on a yacht – i let my lawyers do what lawyers do
and on top of my lawyers , i got a loyal crew
who roll with hammers and cameras that be recordin’ you !
a one and six 0′s says i’m a pro