ntro
i only dress you to undress you babe
let me strip you of your labels
then i wanna lay you down
said i dress you
to undress you
verse 1
she's so original , no father to her style
i'mma put in the work and be the father to her smile tho
so photogenic when she flash them pearly whites
i do it for the money , man , she do it for the lights ( lights , lights , lights )
chrome on the heel , audemars on the wrist
yea that's my audemars but she keep me on time
got a 9 can't be late reservation to the ritz
i'm in my louis cape on my andre leon grind , that's vogue , homie
straight out the pages of the mag
she won't remove them heels man she wear 'em tho it hurts
she tryna see chanel double cc's on the bag
i'm tryna see what's under that herve leger skirt
and so i pull it up - she says she's comin' down
she ridin' shotty in my 72 ferrari dino , yea she's my bonnie
she got that fashion on her mind
pretend it's february , let me be your valentino
( i dress you to undress you )
chorus
cause i only dress you to undress you ( take them clothes off )
girl , i only dress you to undress you ( take them clothes off )
i just wanna strip all your labels from you ( t - t - t - take them clothes off )
cause girl , i only dress you to undress you
verse 2
it's time for chapter two - we headed to milan
we in that charter plane she got nothin' but panties on
another glass of chardonnay , now that should do the trick
damn , look at my life such a helmut newton flick !
a picture perfect print , balenciaga jeans
multi - colored bills switch it up from countin' green
man , i'm such a fiend - this is psychedelic loot
i'm countin' 20 stacks in this pignatelli suit
my 'diamond girl' - she loves the way the precious stones adorn
and accessorize the fashionable clothes that's worn
and when she moves she's an aphrodisiac
and i complete the circle cause i'm everything she lacks
and when it starts to rain , that's the time i'm goin' in
i take her zig - zaggin' underneath missoni throws
she's soaking wet , i rip the fabric from her skin
and let it fall - cause after all it's only clothes
( i dress you to undress you )
chorus
vamp
and as she applies the red to her lip
what's she do it for ? she do it for the lights ( lights , lights , lights... )
she got that new hermes bag on her hip
what's she do it for ? she do it for the lights ( lights , lights , lights... )
in that tom ford dress as she's dancin'
what's she do it for ? she do it for the lights ( lights , lights , lights... )
what you talkin for ? you don't even really stand a chance , man
what's she do it for ? she do it for the lights ( lights , lights , lights... )
chorus