you ain't shit , your daddy ain't shit
your brother ain't shit , your money ain't shit
your lab ain't shit , your rings ain't shit
your gear ain't shit , your jewels ain't shit
your kicks ain't shit , nigga , your whips ain't shit
bobby , you ain't shit , nigga i'm the shit
you ain't shit , your daddy ain't shit
your brother ain't shit , your money ain't shit
your lab ain't shit , your rings ain't shit
your gear ain't shit , your jewels ain't shit
your kicks ain't shit , your whips ain't shit
bobby , you ain't shit , nigga i'm the shit
you ain't shit , your daddy ain't shit
your brother ain't shit , your money ain't shit
your lab ain't shit , bobby you ain't shit
your rings ain't shit , your gear ain't shit
your jewels ain't shit , your kicks ain't shit
your whips ain't shit , nigga , i'm the shit
you ain't shit , your daddy ain't shit
your brother ain't shit , your money ain't shit
your lab ain't shit , your rings ain't shit
your gear ain't shit , your jewels ain't shit
your kicks ain't shit , your whips ain't shit
nigga , i'm the shit...
what the fuck y'all birds talking about ?
get the fuck out my house
'fore i grab you by your hair and slap dick to your mouth
bob digi , yeah you know who is he
girl , i fucking slave trade your ass like kizzy kinte
( but wait , fuck you motherfucker )
you wish you could fuck
bitch , all you can do is dick suck
( your ass can't fuck , that's why your wife left your monkey ass )
fuck that , you don't cook , you don't clean , or press my jeans
you don't scrub or wash clothes
or buy food for making ( ? ? ? ) , bitch
you don't read to the seeds
all you do is watch tv and smoke weed
get your nails done and feet , scrub the hairweave
sleep all day , eat , gain weight , can't breathe
talking about you're going to leave ?
then bitch leave ! what the fuck you're waiting for ?
hit the door , i ain't taking this shit no more !
spending all my cream on gucci , phillies and coach
before you moved to my lab , bitch , i ain't never seen a roach
stains on my carpet , bathroom's more like a fish market
take all the space in my closet , where the fuck's your logic ?
disrespecting my old earth , aborted my child birth
and every day i catch my credit card inside your purse
you can't speak a sentence without a curse
talking 'bout you're going to be a nurse
bitch , to be a nurse you got to go to shool first !
when i first met you , you was a ho
i tried to reform you , bomb you , warn you and teach you
but couldn't reach you , and you're still a ho
your father said you was a ho
and when you leave me , bitch you're gonna be a ho
celluloid and gargoyle feet , i'd rather beat my meat
that raggy ass pussy a starving dog wouldn't eat
started with the body of a model
pussy tight as a pharmaceutical bottle
and you could swallow a whole avocado
and two forty ounce bottles
to the end of the world , which to i would follow
now , when i fuck you , the shit echos cause you pussy is so hollow
turn your fat ass sideways
your stretch marks are like the us highways
fuck a new nigga every friday
talking 'bout bust a nut , bitch i'll bust yo guts !
( you come so quick nigga )
wonder why i come so quick ?
with that wide ass pussy and soggy tits ?
i'm trying to get the shit over with , and go to sleep !
but when i'm with my real freak on the weekend
bet that baby we fuck for two and a half hours or three
you'd better study the 1 - 14 knowledge culture degree
about m - g - t , and g - c - c
cause you ain't shit , and your mother ain't shit
and your sister ain't shit , and your pussy ain't shit
that weave ain't shit , your ass ain't shit
girl you ain't shit , your daddy ain't shit
but fuck it , yo , let me get this fucking phone
yeah , get the motherfucking phone
quit motherfuckers in our fucking
business. end the fuck , or i'll pull
the motherfucking chord out of the
man , fuck that motherfucking socket
yo god , this bitch is bugging i'm sick of this shit motherfucker
get the fuck out , i'm throwing
all the shit on the motherfucking
terrace , right now. i'm sick of
i'm on the phone ! this shit , you and you shit out the
i'm on the phone ! motherfucking closet right now. my
bitch , get the fuck out my nigga , i don't give a fuck , fuck that
house man shit , you get the fuck out my lab , all
these motherfuckers sleeping in the
fucking living room. my seeds run into
these motherfuckers , these niggas are
yo , hey hewey , hey hewey in their dirty motherfucking socks and
fuck you , yo god , my bitch... shit. fucking dirty toilet seats and
this bitch is stupid man shit. my seeds gotta sit on this shit
get these motherfuckers out this
give this fucking crab ass motherfucking lab now. get the fuck
girl the gas yo out. every lat one of y'all mother -
you's a ho bitch ! fuckers. get the fuck out my lab
come on you's a ho !
you'se a ho motherfucker don't make me pick up
you'se a ho this bottle. don't make me pick up
you'se a ho this motherfucking bottle
you'se a ho
ho ! ho !
ho ! ho ! bastard ! bastard !
ho ! ho ! bastard !
fuck you !
ho ! you fucking bastard !
ho ! bastard ! bastard !
fuck you
yo , yo , dunn , yo , yo , god
bastard ! bastard ! bastard !
she's stupid dunn you're fucking dirty dick nigga
yeah you're fucking stupid nigga
you're fucking stupid
you're fucking stupid
we'll be back son now that's right , tell that
we'll be back motherfucker to call you back
cause you ain't going to steal
this motherfucking phone