the princess continues her remarks upon private life
nekayah , perceiving her brother’s attention fixed , proceeded in her narrative.
“in families where there is or is not poverty there is commonly discord. if a kingdom be , as imlac tells us , a great family , a family likewise is a little kingdom , torn with factions and exposed to revolutions. an unpractised observer expects the love of parents and children to be constant and equal. but this kindness seldom continues beyond the years of infancy ; in a short time the children become rivals to their parents. benefits are allowed by reproaches , and gratitude debased by envy.
“parents and children seldom act in concert ; each child endeavours to appropriate the esteem or the fondness of the parents ; and the parents , with yet less temptation , betray each other to their children. thus , some place their confidence in the father and some in the mother , and by degrees the house is filled with artifices and feuds.
“the opinions of children and parents , of the young and the old , are naturally opposite , by the contrary effects of hope and despondency , of expectation and experience , without crime or folly on either side. the colours of life in youth and age appear different , as the face of nature in spring and winter. and how can children credit the assertions of parents which their own eyes show them to be false ?
“few parents act in such a manner as much to enforce their maxims by the credit of their lives. the old man trusts wholly to slow contrivance and gradual progression ; the youth expects to force his way by genius , vigour , and precipitance. the old man pays regard to riches , and the youth reverences virtue. the old man deifies prudence ; the youth commits himself to magnanimity and chance. the young man , who intends no ill , believes that none is intended , and therefore acts with openness and candour ; but his father ; having suffered the injuries of fraud , is impelled to suspect and too often allured to practise it. age looks with anger on the temerity of youth , and youth with contempt on the scrupulosity of age. thus parents and children for the greatest part live on to love less and less ; and if those whom nature has thus closely united are the torments of each other , where shall we look for tenderness and consolations ? ”
“surely , ” said the prince , “you must have been unfortunate in your choice of acquaintance. i am unwilling to believe that the most tender of all relations is thus impeded in its effects by natural necessity.”
“domestic discord , ” answered she , “is not inevitably and fatally necessary , but yet it is not easily avoided. we seldom see that a whole family is virtuous ; the good and the evil cannot well agree , and the evil can yet less agree with one another. even the virtuous fall sometimes to variance , when their virtues are of different kinds and tending to extremes. in general , those parents have most reverence who most deserve it , for he that lives well cannot be despised.
“many other evils infest private life. some are the slaves of servants whom they have trusted with their affairs. some are kept in continual anxiety by the caprice of rich relations , whom they cannot please and dare not offend. some husbands are imperious and some wives perverse , and , as it is always more easy to do evil than good , though the wisdom or virtue of one can very rarely make many happy , the folly or vice of one makes many miserable.”
“if such be the general effect of marriage , ” said the prince , “i shall for the future think it dangerous to connect my interest with that of another , lest i should be unhappy by my partner’s fault.”
“i have met , ” said the princess , “with many who live single for that reason , but i never found that their prudence ought to raise envy. they dream away their time without friendship , without fondness , and are driven to rid themselves of the day , for which they have no use , by childish amusements or vicious delights. they act as beings under the constant sense of some known inferiority that fills their minds with rancour and their tongues with censure. they are peevish at home and malevolent abroad , and , as the outlaws of human nature , make it their business and their pleasure to disturb that society which debars them from its privileges. to live without feeling or exciting sympathy , to be fortunate without adding to the felicity of others , or afflicted without tasting the balm of pity , is a state more gloomy than solitude ; it is not retreat but exclusion from mankind. marriage has many pains , but celibacy has no pleasures.”
“what then is to be done ? ” said rasselas. “the more we inquire the less we can resolve. surely he is most likely to please himself that has no other inclination to regard.”