" me tenet urbs refluâ quam thamesis alluit undâ ,
meque nec invitum patria dulcis habet.
jam nec arundiferum mihi cura revisere camum ,
nec dudum vetiti me laris angit amor. —
nec duri libet usque minas perferre magistri
cæteraque ingenio non subeunda meo.
si sit hoc exilium patrios adiisse penates ,
et vacuum curis otia grata sequi ,
non ego vel profugi nomen sortemve recuso ,
lætus et exilii conditione fruor. "
" — a quo ceu fonte perenni
vatum pieriis ora rigantur aquis. "
hotti toi en megaroisi kakon t' agathon te tetuktai.
" the fellows of the college wherein i spent some years , at my parting , after i had taken two degrees , as the manner is , signified many times how much better it would content them that i should stay. — as for the common approbation or dislike of that place as now it is , that i should esteem or disesteem myself the more for that , too simple is the answerer , if he think to obtain with me. of small practice were the physician who could not judge , by what she and her sister have of long time vomited , that the worser stuff she strongly keeps in her stomach , but the better she is ever kecking at , and is queasy : she vomits now out of sickness ; but before it be well with her she must vomit by strong physick. the university in the time of her better health , and my younger judgement , i never greatly admired , but now much less. "
" lest i should take him for some chaplain in hand , some squire of the body to his prelate , one who serves not at the altar only , but at the court - cupboard , he will bestow on us a pretty model of himself ; and sets me out half a dozen ptisical mottos , wherever he had them , hopping short in the measure of convulsion fits ; in which labour the agony of his wit having scaped narrowly , instead of well - sized periods , he greets us with a quantity of thumb - ring posies. " — and thus ends this section , or rather dissection , of himself.
such is the controversial merriment of milton ; his gloomy seriousness is yet more offensive. such is his malignity that hell grows darker at his frown.
" — quid agis cum dira & foedior omni
crimine persona est ? "
" deserimur , cromuelle ; tu solus superes , ad te summa nostrarum rerum rediit , in te solo consistit , insuperabili tuæ virtuti cedimus cuncti , nemine vel obloquente , nisi qui æquales inæqualis ipse honores sibi quærit , aut digniori concessos invidet , aut non intelligit nihil esse in societate hominum magis vel deo gratum , vel rationi consentaneum , esse in civitate nihil æquius , nihil utilius , quam potiri rerum dignissimum. eum te agnoscunt omnes , cromuelle , ea tu civis maximus et gloriosissimus , dux publici consilii , fortissimorum exercituum imperator , pater patriæ gessisti. sic tu spontanea bonorum omnium et animitus missa voce salutaris. "
" we were left , " says milton , " to ourselves ; the whole national interest fell into your hands , and subsists only in your abilities. to your virtue , overpowering and resistless , every man gives way , except some who without equal qualifications aspire to equal honours , who envy the distinctions of merit greater than their own , or who have yet to learn that in the coalition of human society nothing is more pleasing to god or more agreeable to reason than that the highest mind should have the sovereign power. such , sir , are you by general confession ; such are the things atchieved by you , the greatest and most glorious of our countrymen , the director of our publick councils , the leader of unconquered armies , the father of your country : for by that title does every good man hail you , with sincere and voluntary praise. "
" poma alba ferebat
quæ post nigra tulit morus. "
" the persons. the persons.
michael.
chorus of angels.
heavenly love.
lucifer.
adam ,
eve ,
} with the
} serpent.
conscience.
death.
labour ,
sickness ,
discontent ,
ignorance ,
with others ; }
}
} mutes.
}
}
faith.
hope.
charity. moses.
divine justice , wisdom , heavenly love.
the evening star , hesperus.
chorus of angels.
lucifer.
adam.
eve.
conscience.
labour ,
sickness ,
discontent ,
ignorance ,
fear ,
death ; }
}
} mutes.
}
}
}
faith.
hope.
charity.
paradise lost.
the persons.
justice ,
mercy ,
wisdom , } debating what should become of man , if he fall.
chorus of angels singing a hymn of the creation.
act ii.
heavenly love.
evening star.
chorus sing the marriage - song and describe paradise.
act iii.
lucifer , contriving adam's ruin.
chorus fears for adam , and relates lucifer's rebellion and fall.
act iv.
adam ,
eve , } fallen.
conscience cites them to god's examination.
chorus bewails , and tells the good adam has lost.
act v.
adam	and	eve	driven out of paradise.
" " presented by an angel with
labour , grief hatred , envy , war ,
famine , pestilence , sickness , dis -
content , ignorance , fear , death }
} mutes
}
to whom he gave their names. likewise winter , heat ,
tempest , &c.
faith ,
hope ,
charity , }
} comfort him and instruct him.
}
chorus briefly concludes. "
" adam unparadised :
" which i have a particular reason , " says he , " to remember ; for whereas i had the perusal of it from the very beginning for some years , as i went from time to time to visit him , in parcels of ten , twenty , or thirty verses at a time ( which , being written by whatever hand came next , might possibly want correction as to the orthography and pointing ) , having , as the summer came on , not been shewed any for a considerable while , and desiring the reason thereof , was answered that his vein never happily flowed but from the autumnal equinox to the vernal ; and that whatever he attempted at other times was never to his satisfaction , though he courted his fancy never so much : so that , in all the years he was about this poem , he may be said to have spent half his time therein. "
" he would sometimes lie awake whole nights , but not a verse could he make ; and on a sudden his poetical faculty would rush upon him with an impetus or oestrum , and his daughter was immediately called to secure what came. at other times he would dictate perhaps forty lines in a breath , and then reduce them to half the number. "
" that though our author had daily about him one or other to read , some persons of man's estate , who , of their own accord , greedily catched at the opportunity of being his readers , that they might as well reap the benefit of what they read to him as oblige him by the benefit of their reading , and others of younger years were sent by their parents to the same end ; yet excusing only the eldest daughter , by reason of her bodily infirmity and difficult utterance of speech ( which , to say truth , i doubt was the principal cause of excusing her ) , the other two were condemned to the performance of reading and exactly pronouncing of all the languages of whatever book he should at one time or other think fit to peruse , viz. the hebrew ( and i think the syriac ) , the greek , the latin , the italian , spanish , and french. all which sorts of books to be confined to read , without understanding one word , must needs be a trial of patience almost beyond endurance. yet it was endured by both for a long time , though the irksomeness of this employment could not be always concealed , but broke out more and more into expressions of uneasiness ; so that at length they were all , even the eldest also , sent out to learn some curious and ingenious sorts of manufacture , that are proper for women to learn ; particularly embroideries in gold or silver. "
" we drove a field , and both together heard
what time the grey fly winds her sultry horn ,
battening our flocks with the fresh dews of night. "
we know that they never drove a field , and that they had no flocks to batten ; and though it be allowed that the representation may be allegorical , the true meaning is so uncertain and remote that it is never sought because it cannot be known when it is found.
" of which the least could wield
those elements , and arm him with the force
of all their regions " ;
powers which only the controul of omnipotence restrains from laying creation waste , and filling the vast expanse of space with ruin and confusion. to display the motives and actions of beings thus superiour , so far as human reason can examine them or human imagination represent them , is the task which this mighty poet has undertaken and performed.