the tenth satire of juvenal.
let observation with extensive view ,
survey mankind , from china to peru ;
remark each anxious toil , each eager strife ,
and watch the busy scenes of crouded life ;
then say how hope and fear , desire and hate ,
o'er spread with snares the clouded maze of fate ,
where wav'ring man , betray'd by vent'rous pride ,
to tread the dreary paths without a guide ;
as treach'rous phantoms in the mist delude ,
shuns fancied ills , or chases airy good.
how rarely reason guides the stubborn choice ,
rules the bold hand , or prompts the suppliant voice ,
how nations sink , by darling schemes oppres'd ,
when vengeance listens to the fool's request.
fate wings with ev'ry wish th' afflictive dart ,
each gift of nature , and each grace of art ,
with fatal heat impetuous courage glows ,
with fatal sweetness elocution flows ,
impeachment stops the speaker's pow'rful breath ,
and restless fire precipitates on death.
but scarce observ'd the knowing and the bold ,
fall in the gen'ral massacre of gold ;
wide - wasting pest ! that rages unconfin'd ,
and crouds with crimes the records of mankind ,
for gold his sword the hireling ruffian draws ,
for gold the hireling judge distorts the laws ;
wealth heap'd on wealth , nor truth nor safety buys ,
the dangers gather as the treasures rise.
let hist'ry tell where rival kings command ,
and dubious title shakes the madded land ,
when statutes glean the refuse of the sword ,
how much more safe the vassal than the lord ,
low sculks the hind beneath the rage of pow'r ,
and leaves the bonny traytor in the tow'r ,
untouch'd his cottage , and his slumbers sound ,
tho' confiscation's vulturs clang around.
the needy traveller , serene and gay ,
walks the wild heath , and sings his toil away.
does envy seize thee ? crush th' upbraiding joy ,
encrease his riches and his peace destroy ,
new fears in dire vicissitude invade ,
the rustling brake alarms , and quiv'ring shade ,
nor light nor darkness bring his pain relief ,
one shews the plunder , and one hides the thief.
yet still the gen'ral cry the skies assails
and gain and grandeur load the tainted gales ;
few know the toiling statesman's fear or care ,
th' insidious rival and the gaping heir.
once more , democritus , arise on earth ,
with chearful wisdom and instructive mirth ,
see motley life in modern trappings dress'd ,
and feed with varied fools th' eternal jest :
thou who couldst laugh where want enchain'd caprice ,
toil crush'd conceit , and man was of a piece ;
where wealth unlov'd without a mourner dy'd ;
and scarce a sycophant was fed by pride ;
where ne'er was known the form of mock debate ,
or seen a new - made mayor's unwieldy state ;
where change of fav'rites made no change of laws ,
and senates heard before they judg'd a cause ;
how wouldst thou shake at britain's modish tribe ,
dart the quick taunt , and edge the piercing gibe ?
attentive truth and nature to descry ,
and pierce each scene with philosophic eye.
to thee were solemn toys or empty shew ,
the robes of pleasure and the veils of woe :
all aid the farce , and all thy mirth maintain ,
whose joys are causeless , or whose griefs are vain.
such was the scorn that fill'd the sage's mind ,
renew'd at ev'ry glance on humankind ;
how just that scorn ere yet thy voice declare ,
search every state , and canvass ev'ry pray'r.
unnumber'd suppliants croud preferment's gate ,
athirst for wealth , and burning to be great ;
delusive fortune hears th' incessant call ,
they mount , they shine , evaporate , and fall.
on ev'ry stage the foes of peace attend ,
hate dogs their flight , and insult mocks their end.
love ends with hope , the sinking statesman's door
pours in the morning worshiper no more ;
for growing names the weekly scribbler lies ,
to growing wealth the dedicator flies ,
from every room descends the painted face ,
that hung the bright palladium of the place ,
and smoak'd in kitchens , or in auctions sold ,
to better features yields the frame of gold ;
for now no more we trace in ev'ry line
heroic worth , benevolence divine :
the form distorted justifies the fall ,
and detestation rids th' indignant wall.
but will not britain hear the last appeal ,
sign her foes doom , or guard her fav'rites zeal ;
through freedom's sons no more remonstrance rings ,
degrading nobles and controuling kings ;
our supple tribes repress their patriot throats ,
and ask no questions but the price of votes ;
with weekly libels and septennial ale ,
their wish is full to riot and to rail.
in full - blown dignity , see wolsey stand ,
law in his voice , and fortune in his hand :
to him the church , the realm , their pow'rs consign ,
thro' him the rays of regal bounty shine ,
turn'd by his nod the stream of honour flows ,
his smile alone security bestows :
still to new heights his restless wishes tow'r ,
claim leads to claim , and pow'r advances pow'r ;
till conquest unresisted ceas'd to please ,
and rights submitted , left him none to seize.
at length his sov'reign frowns — the train of state
mark the keen glance , and watch the sign to hate.
where - e'er he turns he meets a stranger's eye ,
his suppliants scorn him , and his followers fly ;
now drops at once the pride of aweful state ,
the golden canopy , the glitt'ring plate ,
the regal palace , the luxurious board ,
the liv'ried army , and the menial lord.
with age , with cares , with maladies oppress'd ,
he seeks the refuge of monastic rest.
grief aids disease , remember'd folly stings ,
and his last sighs reproach the faith of kings.
speak thou , whose thoughts at humble peace repine ,
shall wolsey's wealth , with wolsey's end be thine ?
or liv'st thou now , with safer pride content ,
the richest landlord on the banks of trent ?
for why did wolsey by the steps of fate ,
on weak foundations raise th' enormous weight
why but to sink beneath misfortune's blow ,
with louder ruin to the gulphs below ?
what gave great villiers to th' assassin's knife ,
and fixed disease on harley's closing life ?
what murder'd wentworth , and what exil'd hyde ,
by kings protected and to kings ally'd ?
what but their wish indulg'd in courts to shine ,
and pow'r too great to keep or to resign ?
when first the college rolls receive his name ,
the young enthusiast quits his ease for fame ;
resistless burns the fever of renown ,
caught from the strong contagion of the gown ;
o'er bodley's dome his future labours spread ,
and bacon's mansion trembles o'er his head ;
are these thy views ? proceed , illustrious youth ,
and virtue guard thee to the throne of truth ,
yet should thy soul indulge the gen'rous heat ,
till captive science yields her last retreat ;
should reason guide thee with her brightest ray ,
and pour on misty doubt resistless day ;
should no false kindness lure to loose delight ,
nor praise relax , nor difficulty fright ;
should tempting novelty thy cell refrain ,
and sloth's bland opiates shed their fumes in vain ;
should beauty blunt on fops her fatal dart ,
nor claim the triumph of a letter'd heart ;
should no disease thy torpid veins invade ,
nor melancholy's phantoms haunt thy shade ;
yet hope not life from grief or danger free ,
nor think the doom of man revers'd for thee :
deign on the passing world to turn thine eyes ,
and pause awhile from learning to be wise ;
there mark what ills the scholar's life assail ,
toil , envy , want , the garret , and the jail.
see nations slowly wise , and meanly just ,
to buried merit raise the tardy bust.
if dreams yet flatter , once again attend ,
hear lydiat's life , and galileo's end.
nor deem , when learning her lost prize bestows
the glitt'ring eminence exempt from foes ;
see when the vulgar 'scap'd despis'd or aw'd ,
rebellion's vengeful talons seize on laud.
from meaner minds , tho' smaller fines content
the plunder'd palace or sequester'd rent ;
mark'd out by dangerous parts he meets the shock ,
and fatal learning leads him to the block :
around his tomb let art and genius weep ,
but hear his death , ye blockheads , hear and sleep.
the festal blazes , the triumphal show ,
the ravish'd standard , and the captive foe ,
the senate's thanks , the gazette's pompous tale ,
with force resistless o'er the brave prevail.
such bribes the rapid greek o'er asia whirl'd ,
for such the steady romans shook the world ;
for such in distant lands the britons shine ,
and stain with blood the danube or the rhine ;
this pow'r has praise , that virtue scarce can warm ,
till fame supplies the universal charm.
yet reason frowns on war's unequal game ,
where wasted nations raise a single name ,
and mortgag'd states their grandsires wreaths regret
from age to age in everlasting debt ;
wreaths which at last the dear - bought right convey
to rust on medals , or on stones decay.
on what foundation stands the warrior's pride ?
how just his hopes let swedish charles decide ;
a frame of adamant , a soul of fire ,
no dangers fright him , and no labours tire ;
o'er love , o'er force , extends his wide domain ,
unconquer'd lord of pleasure and of pain ;
no joys to him pacific scepters yield ,
war sounds the trump , he rushes to the field ;
behold surrounding kings their pow'r combine ,
and one capitulate , and one resign ;
peace courts his hand , but spread her charms in vain ;
" think nothing gain'd , he cries , till nought remain ,
" on moscow's walls till gothic standards fly ,
" and all is mine beneath the polar sky. "
the march begins in military state ,
and nations on his eye suspended wait ;
stern famine guards the solitary coast ,
and winter barricades the realms of frost ;
he comes , nor want nor cold his course delay ; — -
hide , blushing glory , hide pultowa's day :
the vanquish'd hero leaves his broken bands ,
and shews his miseries in distant lands ;
condemn'd a needy supplicant to wait ,
while ladies interpose , and slaves debate.
but did not chance at length her error mend ?
did no subverted empire mark his end ?
did rival monarchs give the fatal wound ?
or hostile millions press him to the ground ?
his fall was destin'd to a barren strand ,
a petty fortress , and a dubious hand ;
he left the name , at which the world grew pale ,
to point a moral , or adorn a tale.
all times their scenes of pompous woes afford ,
from persia's tyrant to bavaria's lord.
in gay hostility , and barb'rous pride ,
with half mankind embattled at his side ,
great xerxes comes to seize the certain prey ,
and starves exhausted regions in his way ;
attendant flatt'ry counts his myriads o'er ,
till counted myriads sooth his pride no more ;
fresh praise is try'd till madness fires his mind ,
the waves he lashes , and enchains the wind ;
new pow'rs are claim'd , new pow'rs are still bestowed ,
till rude resistance lops the spreading god ;
the daring greeks deride the martial shew ,
and heap their vallies with the gaudy foe ;
th' insulted sea with humbler thoughts he gains ,
a single skiff to speed his flight remains ;
th' incumber'd oar scarce leaves the dreaded coast
through purple billows and a floating host.
the bold bavarian , in a luckless hour ,
tries the dread summits of cesarean pow'r ,
with unexpected legions bursts away ,
and sees defenceless realms receive his sway ;
short sway ! fair austria spreads her mournful charms ,
the queen , the beauty , sets the world in arms ;
from hill to hill the beacons rousing blaze
spreads wide the hope of plunder and of praise ;
the fierce croatian , and the wild hussar ,
and all the sons of ravage croud the war ;
the baffled prince in honour's flatt'ring bloom
of hasty greatness finds the fatal doom ,
his foes derision , and his subjects blame ,
and steals to death from anguish and from shame.
enlarge my life with multitude of days ,
in health , in sickness , thus the suppliant prays ;
hides from himself his state , and shuns to know ,
that life protracted is protracted woe.
time hovers o'er , impatient to destroy ,
and shuts up all the passages of joy :
in vain their gifts the bounteous seasons pour ,
the fruit autumnal , and the vernal flow'r ,
with listless eyes the dotard views the store ,
he views , and wonders that they please no more ;
now pall the tastless meats , and joyless wines ,
and luxury with sighs her slave resigns.
approach , ye minstrels , try the soothing strain ,
and yield the tuneful lenitives of pain :
no sounds alas would touch th' impervious ear ,
though dancing mountains witness'd orpheus near ;
nor lute nor lyre his feeble pow'rs attend ,
nor sweeter musick of a virtuous friend ,
but everlasting dictates croud his tongue ,
perversely grave , or positively wrong.
the still returning tale , and ling'ring jest ,
perplex the fawning niece and pamper'd guest ,
while growing hopes scarce awe the gath'ring sneer ,
and scarce a legacy can bribe to hear ;
the watchful guests still hint the last offence ,
the daughter's petulance , the son's expence ,
improve his heady rage with treach'rous skill ,
and mould his passions till they make his will.
unnumber'd maladies each joint invade ,
lay siege to life and press the dire blockade ;
but unextinguish'd av'rice still remains ,
and dreaded losses aggravate his pains ;
he turns , with anxious heart and crippled hands ,
his bonds of debt , and mortgages of lands ;
or views his coffers with suspicious eyes ,
unlocks his gold , and counts it till he dies.
but grant , the virtues of a temp'rate prime
bless with an age exempt from scorn or crime ;
an age that melts in unperceiv'd decay ,
and glides in modest innocence away ;
whose peaceful day benevolence endears ,
whose night congratulating conscience cheers ;
the gen'ral fav'rite as the gen'ral friend :
such age there is , and who could wish its end ?
yet ev'n on this her load misfortune flings ,
to press the weary minutes flagging wings :
new sorrow rises as the day returns ,
a sister sickens , or a daughter mourns.
now kindred merit fills the sable bier ,
now lacerated friendship claims a tear.
year chases year , decay pursues decay ,
still drops some joy from with'ring life away ;
new forms arise , and diff'rent views engage ,
superfluous lags the vet'ran on the stage ,
till pitying nature signs the last release ,
and bids afflicted worth retire to peace.
but few there are whom hours like these await ,
who set unclouded in the gulphs of fate.
from lydia's monarch should the search descend ,
by solon caution'd to regard his end ,
in life's last scene what prodigies surprise ,
fears of the brave , and follies of the wise ?
from marlb'rough's eyes the streams of dotage flow ,
and swift expires a driv'ler and a show.
the teeming mother , anxious for her race ,
begs for each birth the fortune of a face :
yet vane could tell what ills from beauty spring ;
and sedley curs'd the form that pleas'd a king.
ye nymphs of rosy lips and radiant eyes ,
whom pleasure keeps too busy to be wise ,
whom joys with soft varieties invite
by day the frolick , and the dance by night ,
who frown with vanity , who smile with art ,
and ask the latest fashion of the heart ,
what care , what rules your heedless charms shall save ,
each nymph your rival , and each youth your slave ?
an envious breast with certain mischief glows ,
and slaves , the maxim tells , are always foes.
against your fame with fondness hate combines ,
the rival batters , and the lover mines.
with distant voice neglected virtue calls ,
less heard , and less the faint remonstrance falls ;
tir'd with contempt , she quits the slipp'ry reign ,
and pride and prudence take her seat in vain.
in croud at once , where none the pass defend ,
the harmless freedom , and the private friend.
the guardians yield , by force superior ply'd ;
by int'rest , prudence ; and by flatt'ry , pride.
here beauty falls betray'd , despis'd , distress'd ,
and hissing infamy proclaims the rest.
where then shall hope and fear their objects find ?
must dull suspence corrupt the stagnant mind ?
must helpless man , in ignorance sedate ,
swim darkling down the current of his fate ?
must no dislike alarm , no wishes rise ,
no cries attempt the mercies of the skies ?
enquirer , cease , petitions yet remain ,
which heav'n may hear , nor deem religion vain.
still raise for good the supplicating voice ,
but leave to heav'n the measure and the choice.
safe in his pow'r , whose eyes discern afar
the secret ambush of a specious pray'r.
implore his aid , in his decisions rest ,
secure whate'er he gives , he gives the best.
yet with the sense of sacred presence prest ,
when strong devotion fills thy glowing breast ,
pour forth thy fervours for a healthful mind ,
obedient passions , and a will resign'd ;
for love , which scarce collective man can fill ;
for patience sov'reign o'er transmuted ill ;
for faith , that panting for a happier seat ,
thinks death kind nature's signal of retreat :
these goods for man the laws of heav'n ordain ,
these goods he grants , who grants the pow'r to gain ;
with these celestial wisdom calms the mind ,
and makes the happiness she does not find.