london : a poem , in imitation of the third satire of juvenal.
tam patiens urbis , tam ferreus ut teneat se ?
juv.
tho' grief and fondness in my breast rebel ,
when injur'd thales bids the town farewell ,
yet still my calmer thoughts his choice commend ,
i praise the hermit , but regret the friend ,
who now resolves , from vice and london far ,
to breathe in distant fields a purer air ,
and , fix'd on cambria's solitary shore ,
give to st david one true briton more.
juv. sat. 3.
quamvis digressu veteris confusus amici ;
laudo , tamen , vacuis quod sedem figere cumis
destinet , atq ; unum civem donare sibyllae.
for who would leave , unbrib'd , hibernia's land ,
or change the rocks of scotland for the strand ?
there none are swept by sudden fate away ,
but all whom hunger spares , with age decay :
here malice , rapine , accident , conspire ,
and now a rabble rages , now a fire ;
their ambush here relentless ruffians lay ,
and here the fell attorney prowls for prey ;
here falling houses thunder on your head ,
and here a female atheist talks you dead.
while thales waits the wherry that contains
of dissipated wealth the small remains ,
on thames's banks , in silent thought we stood ,
where greenwich smiles upon the silver flood :
struck with the seat that gave * eliza birth ,
we kneel , and kiss the consecrated earth ;
ego vel prochytam praepono suburrae.
nam quid tam miferum , tam solum vidimus , ut non
deterius credas horrere incendia , lapsus
jetorum assiduos , et mille pericula faevae
urbis , & augusto recitantes mense poetas ?
sed , dum tota domus rhedd componitur und ,
substitit ad veteres arcus. - - - -
* q. elizabeth born at greenwich.
in pleasing dreams the blissful age renew ,
and call britannia's glories back to view ;
behold her cross triumphant on the main ,
the guard of commerce , and the dread of spain ,
ere masquerades debauch'd , excise oppress'd ,
or english honour grew a standing jest.
a transient calm the happy scenes bestow ,
and for a moment lull the sense of woe.
at length awaking , with contemptuous frown ,
indignant thales eyes the neighb'ring town.
since worth , he cries , in these degen'rate days ,
wants ev'n the cheap reward of empty praise ;
in those curst walls , devote to vice and gain ,
since unrewarded science toils in vain ;
since hope but sooths to double my distress ,
and ev'ry moment leaves my little less ;
hic tunc umbricius : quando artibus , inquit , honestis
nullus in urbe locus , nulla emolumenta laborum ,
res hodie minor est , here quam fuit , atqs eadem cras
deteret exiguis aliquid , proponimus illuc
lre fatigatas ubi daedalus exuit alas ;
dum nova canities - - -
while yet my steady steps no staff sustains ,
and life still vig'rous revels in my veins ;
grant me , kind heaven , to find some happier place ,
where honesty and sense are no disgrace ;
some pleasing bank where verdant osiers play ,
some peaceful vale with nature's paintings gay ;
where once the harrass'd briton found repose ,
and safe in poverty defy'd his foes ;
some secret cell , ye pow'rs , indulgent give.
let - - - live here , for - - has learn'd to live.
here let those reign , whom pensions can incite
to vote a patriot black , a courtier white ;
explain their country's dear - bought rights away ,
and plead for pirates in the face of day ;
with slavish tenets taint our poison'd youth ,
and lend a lye the confidence of truth.
let such raise palaces , and manors buy ,
collect a tax , or farm a lottery ,
- - - - - - - - - et pedibus me
porto meis , nullo dextram fubeunte bacillo.
cedamus patrid : vivant arturius istic
et catulus : maneant qui nigrum in candida vertunt.
queis facile est aedem conducere , flumina , portus ,
siccandam eluviem , portandum ad busta cadaver - - - -
munera nunc edunt. - - - -
with warbling eunuchs fill our silenc'd stage ,
and lull to servitude a thoughtless age.
heroes , proceed ! what bounds your pride shall hold ?
what check restrain your thirst of pow'r and gold ?
behold rebellious virtue quite o'erthrown ,
behold our fame , our wealth , our lives your own.
to such , a groaning nation's spoils are giv'n ,
when publick crimes inflame the wrath of heav'n :
7 but what , my friend , what hope remains for me ,
who start at theft , and blush at perjury ?
who scarce forbear , tho' britain's court he sing ,
to pluck a titled poet's borrow'd wing ;
a statesman's logic unconvinc'd can hear ,
and dare to slumber o'er the gazetteer ;
despise a fool in half his pension drest ,
and strive in vain to laugh at h - - - - y's jest.
8 others with softer smiles , and subtler art ,
can sap the principles , or taint the heart ;
quid romæ faciam ? mentiri nescio : librum ,
si malus est , nequco laudare & poscere - - - -
- - - - ferve ad nuptas quæ mittit adulter ,
quæ mardat norint alij : me nemo ministro
fur erit , alq ; idco nulli comes exeo. - - - -
with more address a lover's note convey ,
or bribe a virgin's innocence away.
well may they rise , while i , whose rustic tongue
ne'er knew to puzzle right , or varnish wrong ,
spurn'd as a begger , dreaded as a spy ,
live unregarded , unlamented die.
10 for what but social guilt the friend endears ?
who shares orgilio's crimes , his fortune shares.
11 but thou , should tempting villainy present
all marlb'rough hoarded , or all villiers spent ,
turn from the glitt'ring bribe thy scornful eye ,
nor fell for gold , what gold could never buy ,
the peaceful slumber , self - approving day ,
unsullied fame , and conscience ever gay.
12 the cheated nation's happy fav'rites see !
mark whom the great caress , who frown on me !
quis nunc diligitur nisi confcius ? - - - -
charus erit verri , qui verrem tempore , quo vult ,
accusare potest. - - - - -
- - - - tanti tibi non fit opaci
omnis arena tagi , quodque in mare volvitur aurum ,
ut somno careas. - - - -
quæ nunc divitibus gens acceptissima nostris ,
et quos praecipue fugiam , properavo fatert.
london ! the needy villain's gen'ral home ,
the common shore of paris and of rome ;
with eager thirst , by folly or by fate ,
sucks in the dregs of each corrupted state.
forgive my transports on a theme like this ,
13 i cannot bear a french metropolis.
14 illustrious edward ! from the realms of day ,
the land of heroes and of saints survey ;
nor hope the british lineaments to trace ,
the rustic grandeur ; or the surly grace ,
but lost in thoughtless ease , and empty show ,
behold the warriour dwindled to a beau ;
sense , freedom , piety , refin'd away ,
of france the mimic , and of spain the prey ;
all that at home no more can beg or steal ,
or like a gibbet better than a wheel ;
hiss'd from the stage , or hooted from the court ,
their air , their dress , their politicks import ;
- - - - - - non possum ferre , quirites ,
græcam urbem. - - - - -
rusticus ille tuus fumit trechedipna , quirine ,
et ceromatico fert niceteria collo.
15 obsequious , artful , voluble and gay ,
on britain's fond credulity they prey.
no gainful trade their industry can 'scape ,
16 they sing , they dance , clean shoes , or cure a clap ;
all sciences a fasting monsieur knows ,
and bid him go to hell , to hell he goes ,
17 ah ! what avails it , that , from slav'ry far ,
i drew the breath of life in english air ;
was early taught a briton's right to prize ,
and lisp the tale of henry's victories ;
if the gull'd conqueror receives the chain ,
and what their armies lost , their cringes gain ?
i8 studious to please , and ready to submit ,
the supple gaul was born a parasite :
still to his int'rest true , where'er he goes ,
wit , brav'ry , worth , his lavish tongue bestows ;
lngenium velox , audacia perdita , sermo
promptus , - - - - - - - -
augur , schænobates , medicus , magus : omnia novit
græculus esuriens , in cælum , jusseris , ibit.
usque adeo nihil est , quod nostra infantia cælum
hausit aventini ? - - - - - -
quid ? quod adulandi gens prudentissima , laudat
sermonem indecti , faciem deformis amici ?
in ev'ry face a thousand graces shine ,
from ev'ry tongue flows harmony divine.
19 these arts in vain our rugged natives try ,
strain out with fault'ring diffidence a lye ,
and gain a kick for awkward flattery.
besides , with justice , this discerning age
admires their wond'rous talents for the stage :
20 well may they venture on the mimic's art ,
who play from morn to night a borrow'd part ;
practis'd their master's notions to embrace ,
repeat his maxims , and reflect his face ;
with ev'ry wild absurdity comply ,
and view each object with another's eye ;
to shake with laughter ere the jest they hear ,
to pour at will the counterfeited tear ;
and as their patron hints the cold or heat ,
to shake in dog - days , in december sweat.
hæc eadem licet & nobis laudare : fed illis
creditur.
10 natio comæda eft. rides ? majore cacbinno
concutitur , &c.
21 how , when competitors like these contend ,
can surly virtue hope to fix a friend ?
slaves that with serious impudence beguile ,
and lye without a blush , without a smile ;
exalt each trifle , ev'ry vice adore ,
your taste in snuff , your judgment in a whore ;
can balbo's eloquence applaud , and swear
he gropes his breeches with a monarch's air.
for arts like these preferr'd , admir'd , carest ,
they first invade your table , then your breast ;
22 explore your secrets with insidious art ,
watch the weak hour , and ransack all the heart ;
then soon your ill - plac'd confidence repay ,
commence your lords , and govern or betray.
23 by numbers here from shame or censure free ,
all crimes are safe , but hated poverty.
21 non sumus ergo pares : melior , qui semper & omni
nocte dieque potest alienum sumere vultum ,
a facie jactare manus : laudare paratus ,
si bene ructavit , si rectum minxit amicus. -
22 scire volunt secreta domus , alque inde timeri.
23 - materiem præbet causasque jocorum
omnibus bic idem ? si sada et scissa lacerna , &c.
this ,
this , only this , the rigid law persues ,
this , only this , provokes the snarling muse ;
the sober trader at a tatter'd cloak ,
wakes from his dream , and labours for a joke ;
with brisker air the silken courtiers gaze ,
and turn the varied taunt a thousand ways.
24 of all the griefs that harrass the distrest ,
sure the most bitter is a scornful jest ;
fate never wounds more deep the gen'rous heart ,
than when a blockhead's insult points the dart.
25 has heaven reserv'd , in pity to the poor ,
no pathless waste , or undiscover'd shore ?
no secret island in the boundless main ?
no peaceful desart yet unclaim'd by spain ?
quick let us rise , the happy seats explore ,
and bear oppression's insolence no more.
24 nil habet infelix paupertas durius in se ,
quam qued ridiculos homines facit.
25 - - - agmine facto
debuerant olim tenues migrasse quirites.
this mournful truth is ev'ry where confest ,
26 slow rises worth , by poverty deprest :
but here more slow , where all are slaves to gold ,
where looks are merchandise , and smiles are sold ,
where won by bribes , by flatteries implor'd ,
the groom retails the favours of his lord.
but hark ! th' affrighted crowd's tumultuous cries
roll thro' the streets , and thunder to the skies ;
rais'd from some pleasing dream of wealth and pow'r ,
some pompous palace , or some blissful bow'r ,
aghast you start , and scarce with aking sight ,
sustain th' approaching fire's tremendous light ;
swift from pursuing horrors take your way ,
and leave your little all to flames a prey ;
27 then thro' the world a wretched vagrant roam ,
for where can starving merit find a home ?
26 haud facile emergunt , quorum virtutibus obfiat
res angusta domi , fed romæ durior illis
conatus. - -
- - - - omnia romæ
cum pretio - - -
cogimur , & cultis augere peculia fervis.
27 - - ultimus autem ,
ærumne cumulus , quod nudum , & frusta rogantem
nemo cibo , nemo hospitio , tectoq ; juvabit.
in vain your mournful narrative disclose ,
while all neglect , and most insult your woes.
28 should heaven's just bolts orgilio's wealth con -
found ,
and spread his flaming palace on the ground ,
swift o'er the land the dismal rumour flies ,
and publick mournings pacify the skies ;
the laureat tribe in servile verse relate ,
how virtue wars with persecuting fate ;
29 with well - feign'd gratitude the pension'd band
refund the plunder of the begger'd land.
see ! while he builds , the gaudy vassals come ,
and crowd with sudden wealth the rising dome ;
the price of boroughs and of souls restore ,
and raise his treasures higher than before.
now bless'd with all the baubles of the great ,
the polish'd marble , and the shining plate ,
28 si magna asturici cecidit domus , horrida mater ,
pullati proceres.
29 iam accurrit , qui marmora donet ,
conferat impensas : hic , &c.
ilic modium argenti.
e orgilio
30 orgilio sees the golden pile aspire ,
and hopes from angry heav'n another fire.
31 could'st thou resign the park and play content ,
for the fair banks of severn or of trent ;
there might'st thou find some elegant retreat ,
some hireling senator's deserted seat ;
and stretch thy prospects o'er the smiling land ,
for less than rent the dungeons of the strand ;
there prune thy walks , support thy drooping flow'rs ,
direct thy rivulets , and twine thy bow'rs ;
and , while thy beds a cheap repast afford ,
despise the dainties of a venal lord :
there ev'ry bush with nature's music rings ,
there ev'ry breeze bears health upon its wings ;
on all thy hours security shall smile ,
and bless thine evening walk and morning toil.
30 meliora , ac plura reponit
persicus orborum lautissimus.
31 si potes avelli circensibus , optima sorae ,
aut fabretariae : domus , aut fusinone paratur ,
quanti nunc tenebras unum conducis in annum.
hortulus hic.
vive bidentis amans , & culti villicus horti ,
unde epulum possis centum dare pythagoreis.
32 prepare for death , if here at night you roam ,
and sign your will before you sup from home.
33 some fiery fop , with new commission vain ,
who sleeps on brambles till he kills his man ;
some frolick drunkard , reeling from a feast ,
provokes a broil , and stabs you for a jest.
34 yet ev'n these heroes , mischievously gay ,
lords of the street , and terrors of the way ;
flush'd as they are with folly , youth and wine ,
their prudent insults to the poor confine ;
afar they mark the flambeau's bright approach ,
and shun the shining train , and golden coach.
35 in vain , these dangers past , your doors you close ,
and hope the balmy blessings of repose :
32 possis ignavus haberi ,
et fubiti casus improvidus , ad caenam si
intestatuts eas.
33 ebrius et petulans , qui nullum forte cecidit ,
dat poenas , noctem patitur lugentis amicum
peleidae
34 sed , quamvis improbus annis ,
atq ; mero fervens , cavet hunc , quem coccina laena
vitari jubet , et comitum longissimus ordo ,
multum praeterea flammarum , atq ; aenea lampas.
3s nec tamen hoc tantum rnetuas : nam qui spoliet te
non decrit : clausis domibus , &c.
cruel with guilt , and daring with despair ,
the midnight murd'rer bursts the faithless bar ;
invades the sacred hour of silent rest ,
and plants , unseen , a dagger in your breast.
36 scarce can our fields , such crowds at tyburn die ,
with hemp the gallows and the fleet supply.
propose your schemes , ye senatorian band ,
whose ways and means support the sinking land ;
lest ropes be wanting in the tempting spring ,
to rig another convoy for the k - - g.
37 a single jail , in alfred's golden reign ,
could half the nation's criminals contain ;
fair justice then , without constraint ador'd ,
sustain'd the ballance , but resign'd the sword ;
no spies were paid , no special juries known ,
blest age ! but ah ! how diff'rent from our own !
36 maximus in vinclis ferri modus : ut timeas , ne
vomer deficiat , ne marrae et sarcula desint.
37 felices proavorum atavos , felicia dicas
secula , quae quondam sub regibus atq ; tribunis
viderunt uno contentam carcere romam.
38 much could i add , - - - - but see the boat at hand ,
the tide retiring , calls me from the land :
39 farewel ! - - - - - when youth , and health , and for -
tune spent ,
thou fly'st for refuge to the wilds of kent ;
and tir'd like me with follies and with crimes ,
in angry numbers warn'st succeeding times ;
then shall thy friend , nor thou refuse his aid ,
still foe to vice forsake his cambrian shade ;
in virtue's cause once more exert his rage ,
thy satire point , and animate thy page.
38 his alias poteram et pluris subnectere causas :
sed jumenta vocant
39 ergo vale nostri memor , & quoties te
roma tuo refici properantem reddet aquino ,
me quoque ad eleusinam cererem , vestramq ; dianam
convelle a cumis : satirarum ego , ni pudet illas ,
adjutor gelidos veniam caligatus in agros.