fores. calder. fort george
we went forwards the same day to fores , the town to which macbeth was travelling , when he met the weird sisters in his way. this to an englishman is classic ground. our imaginations were heated , and our thoughts recalled to their old amusements.
we had now a prelude to the highlands. we began to leave fertility and culture behind us , and saw for a great length of road nothing but heath ; yet at fochabars , a seat belonging to the duke of gordon , there is an orchard , which in scotland i had never seen before , with some timber trees , and a plantation of oaks.
at fores we found good accommodation , but nothing worthy of particular remark , and next morning entered upon the road , on which macbeth heard the fatal prediction ; but we travelled on not interrupted by promises of kingdoms , and came to nairn , a royal burgh , which , if once it flourished , is now in a state of miserable decay ; but i know not whether its chief annual magistrate has not still the title of lord provost.
at nairn we may fix the verge of the highlands ; for here i first saw peat fires , and first heard the erse language. we had no motive to stay longer than to breakfast , and went forward to the house of mr. macaulay , the minister who published an account of st. kilda , and by his direction visited calder castle , from which macbeth drew his second title. it has been formerly a place of strength. the drawbridge is still to be seen , but the moat is now dry. the tower is very ancient : its walls are of great thickness , arched on the top with stone , and surrounded with battlements. the rest of the house is later , though far from modern.
we were favoured by a gentleman , who lives in the castle , with a letter to one of the officers at fort george , which being the most regular fortification in the island , well deserves the notice of a traveller , who has never travelled before. we went thither next day , found a very kind reception , were led round the works by a gentleman , who explained the use of every part , and entertained by sir eyre coote , the governour , with such elegance of conversation as left us no attention to the delicacies of his table.
of fort george i shall not attempt to give any account. i cannot delineate it scientifically , and a loose and popular description is of use only when the imagination is to be amused. there was every where an appearance of the utmost neatness and regularity. but my suffrage is of little value , because this and fort augustus are the only garrisons that i ever saw.
we did not regret the time spent at the fort , though in consequence of our delay we came somewhat late to inverness , the town which may properly be called the capital of the highlands. hither the inhabitants of the inland parts come to be supplied with what they cannot make for themselves : hither the young nymphs of the mountains and valleys are sent for education , and as far as my observation has reached , are not sent in vain.