on an amateur beat
it is one of my fancies , that even my idlest walk must always have its appointed destination. i set myself a task before i leave my lodging in covent - garden on a street expedition , and should no more think of altering my route by the way , or turning back and leaving a part of it unachieved , than i should think of fraudulently violating an agreement entered into with somebody else. the other day , finding myself under this kind of obligation to proceed to limehouse , i started punctually at noon , in compliance with the terms of the contract with myself to which my good faith was pledged.
on such an occasion , it is my habit to regard my walk as my beat , and myself as a higher sort of police - constable doing duty on the same. there is many a ruffian in the streets whom i mentally collar and clear out of them , who would see mighty little of london , i can tell him , if i could deal with him physically.
issuing forth upon this very beat , and following with my eyes three hulking garrotters on their way home , —which home i could confidently swear to be within so many yards of drury - lane , in such a narrow and restricted direction ( though they live in their lodging quite as undisturbed as i in mine ) , —i went on duty with a consideration which i respectfully offer to the new chief commissioner , —in whom i thoroughly confide as a tried and efficient public servant. how often ( thought i ) have i been forced to swallow , in police - reports , the intolerable stereotyped pill of nonsense , how that the police - constable informed the worthy magistrate how that the associates of the prisoner did , at that present speaking , dwell in a street or court which no man dared go down , and how that the worthy magistrate had heard of the dark reputation of such street or court , and how that our readers would doubtless remember that it was always the same street or court which was thus edifyingly discoursed about , say once a fortnight.
now , suppose that a chief commissioner sent round a circular to every division of police employed in london , requiring instantly the names in all districts of all such much - puffed streets or courts which no man durst go down ; and suppose that in such circular he gave plain warning , ‘if those places really exist , they are a proof of police inefficiency which i mean to punish ; and if they do not exist , but are a conventional fiction , then they are a proof of lazy tacit police connivance with professional crime , which i also mean to punish’—what then ? fictions or realities , could they survive the touchstone of this atom of common sense ? to tell us in open court , until it has become as trite a feature of news as the great gooseberry , that a costly police - system such as was never before heard of , has left in london , in the days of steam and gas and photographs of thieves and electric telegraphs , the sanctuaries and stews of the stuarts ! why , a parity of practice , in all departments , would bring back the plague in two summers , and the druids in a century !
walking faster under my share of this public injury , i overturned a wretched little creature , who , clutching at the rags of a pair of trousers with one of its claws , and at its ragged hair with the other , pattered with bare feet over the muddy stones. i stopped to raise and succour this poor weeping wretch , and fifty like it , but of both sexes , were about me in a moment , begging , tumbling , fighting , clamouring , yelling , shivering in their nakedness and hunger. the piece of money i had put into the claw of the child i had over - turned was clawed out of it , and was again clawed out of that wolfish gripe , and again out of that , and soon i had no notion in what part of the obscene scuffle in the mud , of rags and legs and arms and dirt , the money might be. in raising the child , i had drawn it aside out of the main thoroughfare , and this took place among some wooden hoardings and barriers and ruins of demolished buildings , hard by temple bar.
unexpectedly , from among them emerged a genuine police - constable , before whom the dreadful brood dispersed in various directions , he making feints and darts in this direction and in that , and catching nothing. when all were frightened away , he took off his hat , pulled out a handkerchief from it , wiped his heated brow , and restored the handkerchief and hat to their places , with the air of a man who had discharged a great moral duty , —as indeed he had , in doing what was set down for him. i looked at him , and i looked about at the disorderly traces in the mud , and i thought of the drops of rain and the footprints of an extinct creature , hoary ages upon ages old , that geologists have identified on the face of a cliff ; and this speculation came over me : if this mud could petrify at this moment , and could lie concealed here for ten thousand years , i wonder whether the race of men then to be our successors on the earth could , from these or any marks , by the utmost force of the human intellect , unassisted by tradition , deduce such an astounding inference as the existence of a polished state of society that bore with the public savagery of neglected children in the streets of its capital city , and was proud of its power by sea and land , and never used its power to seize and save them !
after this , when i came to the old bailey and glanced up it towards newgate , i found that the prison had an inconsistent look. there seemed to be some unlucky inconsistency in the atmosphere that day ; for though the proportions of st. paul’s cathedral are very beautiful , it had an air of being somewhat out of drawing , in my eyes. i felt as though the cross were too high up , and perched upon the intervening golden ball too far away.
facing eastward , i left behind me smithfield and old bailey , —fire and faggot , condemned hold , public hanging , whipping through the city at the cart - tail , pillory , branding - iron , and other beautiful ancestral landmarks , which rude hands have rooted up , without bringing the stars quite down upon us as yet , —and went my way upon my beat , noting how oddly characteristic neighbourhoods are divided from one another , hereabout , as though by an invisible line across the way. here shall cease the bankers and the money - changers ; here shall begin the shipping interest and the nautical - instrument shops ; here shall follow a scarcely perceptible flavouring of groceries and drugs ; here shall come a strong infusion of butchers ; now , small hosiers shall be in the ascendant ; henceforth , everything exposed for sale shall have its ticketed price attached. all this as if specially ordered and appointed.
a single stride at houndsditch church , no wider than sufficed to cross the kennel at the bottom of the canon - gate , which the debtors in holyrood sanctuary were wont to relieve their minds by skipping over , as scott relates , and standing in delightful daring of catchpoles on the free side , —a single stride , and everything is entirely changed in grain and character. west of the stride , a table , or a chest of drawers on sale , shall be of mahogany and french - polished ; east of the stride , it shall be of deal , smeared with a cheap counterfeit resembling lip - salve. west of the stride , a penny loaf or bun shall be compact and self - contained ; east of the stride , it shall be of a sprawling and splay - footed character , as seeking to make more of itself for the money. my beat lying round by whitechapel church , and the adjacent sugar - refineries , —great buildings , tier upon tier , that have the appearance of being nearly related to the dock - warehouses at liverpool , —i turned off to my right , and , passing round the awkward corner on my left , came suddenly on an apparition familiar to london streets afar off.
what london peripatetic of these times has not seen the woman who has fallen forward , double , through some affection of the spine , and whose head has of late taken a turn to one side , so that it now droops over the back of one of her arms at about the wrist ? who does not know her staff , and her shawl , and her basket , as she gropes her way along , capable of seeing nothing but the pavement , never begging , never stopping , for ever going somewhere on no business ? how does she live , whence does she come , whither does she go , and why ? i mind the time when her yellow arms were naught but bone and parchment. slight changes steal over her ; for there is a shadowy suggestion of human skin on them now. the strand may be taken as the central point about which she revolves in a half - mile orbit. how comes she so far east as this ? and coming back too ! having been how much farther ? she is a rare spectacle in this neighbourhood. i receive intelligent information to this effect from a dog—a lop - sided mongrel with a foolish tail , plodding along with his tail up , and his ears pricked , and displaying an amiable interest in the ways of his fellow - men , —if i may be allowed the expression. after pausing at a pork - shop , he is jogging eastward like myself , with a benevolent countenance and a watery mouth , as though musing on the many excellences of pork , when he beholds this doubled - up bundle approaching. he is not so much astonished at the bundle ( though amazed by that ) , as the circumstance that it has within itself the means of locomotion. he stops , pricks his ears higher , makes a slight point , stares , utters a short , low growl , and glistens at the nose , —as i conceive with terror. the bundle continuing to approach , he barks , turns tail , and is about to fly , when , arguing with himself that flight is not becoming in a dog , he turns , and once more faces the advancing heap of clothes. after much hesitation , it occurs to him that there may be a face in it somewhere. desperately resolving to undertake the adventure , and pursue the inquiry , he goes slowly up to the bundle , goes slowly round it , and coming at length upon the human countenance down there where never human countenance should be , gives a yelp of horror , and flies for the east india docks.
being now in the commercial road district of my beat , and bethinking myself that stepney station is near , i quicken my pace that i may turn out of the road at that point , and see how my small eastern star is shining.
the children’s hospital , to which i gave that name , is in full force. all its beds are occupied. there is a new face on the bed where my pretty baby lay , and that sweet little child is now at rest for ever. much kind sympathy has been here since my former visit , and it is good to see the walls profusely garnished with dolls. i wonder what poodles may think of them , as they stretch out their arms above the beds , and stare , and display their splendid dresses. poodles has a greater interest in the patients. i find him making the round of the beds , like a house - surgeon , attended by another dog , —a friend , —who appears to trot about with him in the character of his pupil dresser. poodles is anxious to make me known to a pretty little girl looking wonderfully healthy , who had had a leg taken off for cancer of the knee. a difficult operation , poodles intimates , wagging his tail on the counterpane , but perfectly successful , as you see , dear sir ! the patient , patting poodles , adds with a smile , ‘the leg was so much trouble to me , that i am glad it’s gone.’ i never saw anything in doggery finer than the deportment of poodles , when another little girl opens her mouth to show a peculiar enlargement of the tongue. poodles ( at that time on a table , to be on a level with the occasion ) looks at the tongue ( with his own sympathetically out ) so very gravely and knowingly , that i feel inclined to put my hand in my waistcoat - pocket , and give him a guinea , wrapped in paper.
on my beat again , and close to limehouse church , its termination , i found myself near to certain ‘lead - mills.’ struck by the name , which was fresh in my memory , and finding , on inquiry , that these same lead - mills were identified with those same lead - mills of which i made mention when i first visited the east london children’s hospital and its neighbourhood as uncommercial traveller , i resolved to have a look at them.
received by two very intelligent gentlemen , brothers , and partners with their father in the concern , and who testified every desire to show their works to me freely , i went over the lead - mills. the purport of such works is the conversion of pig - lead into white - lead. this conversion is brought about by the slow and gradual effecting of certain successive chemical changes in the lead itself. the processes are picturesque and interesting , —the most so , being the burying of the lead , at a certain stage of preparation , in pots , each pot containing a certain quantity of acid besides , and all the pots being buried in vast numbers , in layers , under tan , for some ten weeks.
hopping up ladders , and across planks , and on elevated perches , until i was uncertain whether to liken myself to a bird or a brick - layer , i became conscious of standing on nothing particular , looking down into one of a series of large cocklofts , with the outer day peeping in through the chinks in the tiled roof above. a number of women were ascending to , and descending from , this cockloft , each carrying on the upward journey a pot of prepared lead and acid , for deposition under the smoking tan. when one layer of pots was completely filled , it was carefully covered in with planks , and those were carefully covered with tan again , and then another layer of pots was begun above ; sufficient means of ventilation being preserved through wooden tubes. going down into the cockloft then filling , i found the heat of the tan to be surprisingly great , and also the odour of the lead and acid to be not absolutely exquisite , though i believe not noxious at that stage. in other cocklofts , where the pots were being exhumed , the heat of the steaming tan was much greater , and the smell was penetrating and peculiar. there were cocklofts in all stages ; full and empty , half filled and half emptied ; strong , active women were clambering about them busily ; and the whole thing had rather the air of the upper part of the house of some immensely rich old turk , whose faithful seraglio were hiding his money because the sultan or the pasha was coming.
as is the case with most pulps or pigments , so in the instance of this white - lead , processes of stirring , separating , washing , grinding , rolling , and pressing succeed. some of these are unquestionably inimical to health , the danger arising from inhalation of particles of lead , or from contact between the lead and the touch , or both. against these dangers , i found good respirators provided ( simply made of flannel and muslin , so as to be inexpensively renewed , and in some instances washed with scented soap ) , and gauntlet gloves , and loose gowns. everywhere , there was as much fresh air as windows , well placed and opened , could possibly admit. and it was explained that the precaution of frequently changing the women employed in the worst parts of the work ( a precaution originating in their own experience or apprehension of its ill effects ) was found salutary. they had a mysterious and singular appearance , with the mouth and nose covered , and the loose gown on , and yet bore out the simile of the old turk and the seraglio all the better for the disguise.
at last this vexed white - lead , having been buried and resuscitated , and heated and cooled and stirred , and separated and washed and ground , and rolled and pressed , is subjected to the action of intense fiery heat. a row of women , dressed as above described , stood , let us say , in a large stone bakehouse , passing on the baking - dishes as they were given out by the cooks , from hand to hand , into the ovens. the oven , or stove , cold as yet , looked as high as an ordinary house , and was full of men and women on temporary footholds , briskly passing up and stowing away the dishes. the door of another oven , or stove , about to be cooled and emptied , was opened from above , for the uncommercial countenance to peer down into. the uncommercial countenance withdrew itself , with expedition and a sense of suffocation , from the dull - glowing heat and the overpowering smell. on the whole , perhaps the going into these stoves to work , when they are freshly opened , may be the worst part of the occupation.
but i made it out to be indubitable that the owners of these lead - mills honestly and sedulously try to reduce the dangers of the occupation to the lowest point.
a washing - place is provided for the women ( i thought there might have been more towels ) , and a room in which they hang their clothes , and take their meals , and where they have a good fire - range and fire , and a female attendant to help them , and to watch that they do not neglect the cleansing of their hands before touching their food. an experienced medical attendant is provided for them , and any premonitory symptoms of lead - poisoning are carefully treated. their teapots and such things were set out on tables ready for their afternoon meal , when i saw their room ; and it had a homely look. it is found that they bear the work much better than men : some few of them have been at it for years , and the great majority of those i observed were strong and active. on the other hand , it should be remembered that most of them are very capricious and irregular in their attendance.
american inventiveness would seem to indicate that before very long white - lead may be made entirely by machinery. the sooner , the better. in the meantime , i parted from my two frank conductors over the mills , by telling them that they had nothing there to be concealed , and nothing to be blamed for. as to the rest , the philosophy of the matter of lead - poisoning and workpeople seems to me to have been pretty fairly summed up by the irishwoman whom i quoted in my former paper : ‘some of them gets lead - pisoned soon , and some of them gets lead - pisoned later , and some , but not many , niver ; and ’tis all according to the constitooshun , sur ; and some constitooshuns is strong and some is weak.’ retracing my footsteps over my beat , i went off duty.