yeah. yeah. yeah. vizzy. zone. this is the layover. shout out to nipsey , shawn chrys. man , what up ? aye , i'm about to get a crib there very soon too. haha. look out for me. yeah. look
why can't i have it all ?
maybe i just ask for much
i want the world tony , so i have to touch
marry a bad broad , with an ass like plush
then of course , we get divorced and she take half my stuff
yep
cause a dime cost a pretty penny
and i never was the dude to be like , " gimmie , gimmie "
i'm kevin arnold , seven's paul , but are there any winnie's ?
that's probably why i'll send a girl home in any inning
vizzy , vizzy , odds against him now i'm getting even
this mc is near to a titan , r.i.p. steven
cold flow , conscious thoughts , i call it deep freezing
dictionary's absent from rapping and kids need meaning
but why kid myself
like i ain't a kid myself
playing games , getting cake , no child's play , but chucky cheesing
and they asking me , " what's the reason ? "
why can't i just stop ?
i guess it's hard when you fucking speeding
latin chick , keep a fast whip to tuck the heat in
so she can bust and flee then
from all these bustas beefing
i'm having lunch meetings in rooms you can't touch a thing in
the same dude they ain't once believe in
uh , i'm bruce wayne
models hang for a couple evenings
big pimping on a boat , soon as i bust i'm breezing
i come beating down your block like a young heathen
more verses then a dude that loves competing
killin' 'em with the flow
call it a hearse verse
deeper than a motorcade , flier than a float parade
the day that i am oprah paid
i will shave a $100 bill up , put it in a bowl and call that shit potpourri
niggas don't understand
i think i overstayed
but i ain't leaving here , until they know my name
i am so up there , i can tow a plane
landing zone gear , shoot a flare and a smoke grenade
the day that they awake
from all the sleeping
i got it made/maid
hotel housekeeping
a lot to say , so until i speak it
it's not the same , and it's best to not believe it
yeah , see what i did there ?
and it ain't '97
but i swear , that it's gonna be a b.i.g. year
even with cole here , freddie here , nipsey here
sean/shawn here , wiz here , this is where i fit , jeah
shout out to all of them , now i put it in fifth gear
make the cut like a pits ears , uh
when i'm around , i suggest you keep your chick near
i'll bag a pretty woman , in my rich gear/gere
ain't that a bitch ? yeah
life's what you're calling it
and it's drop dead gorgeous , you should call it farrah fawcett
god damn
how could vizzy be so heartless ?
i've been playing kingdom hearts for the motherfucking longest
game's so flawless , but i always look forward
to girls hollering like we're going to sadie hawkins
the game is the target , the gun's behind the toilet
the bomb is in my backpack and i'm dropping it in august
x.plosi.v.e