( intro )
this shit ain't easy
y'all already know how i'm rockin'
tre seven
bang bang !
and nigga it's the glizzy gang !
( hook )
i'm coolin' with my glizzies ( glizzies , bow ! )
and bitch we run the city ( we run the city )
nigga i'm 3 milli ( aww ! ) , i'mma catch your grandmother and shoot her in her titties ( blew blew blew blew ! )
don't be fuckin' with my glizzies ( glizzies ! ) bad boys like diddy ( bow ! )
keep talkin' bout designer lil nigga you filthy ( bang bang ! )
you keep that shit 3 hunna ( bang bang ! ) i keep that shit 3 milli ( bang bang ! )
catch you ridin' around in that audi i'mma hit you with this semi ( skurt ! bow ! )
( verse 1 )
chief keef don't wanna be him ( nahh ! ) this bitch nigga made me tweet him ( aww ! )
i can't wait to see him ( can't wait ) you keep it 3 hunna , i keep this shit 3 m's ( bang bang ! )
you sound like you 40 ( aww ! ) and you only 17 years old ( lil nigga ! )
nigga i gotta 40 ( bow ! ) i'm only 19 and ballin' like i'm d. rose ( swoosh ! )
you told me i'm tweakin ( tweakin ! ) nigga watch what you tweetin' ( watch what you tweetin' )
all my belts designer , do you wanna fendi beatin' ? ( aww ! )
how you gon tweet a diss song and you don't even know me ? ( don't know me ! )
sosa got himself in this so now sosa owe me !
talkin' 'bout " a soft ass dc nigga " ( huh ! ? ) bet you won't come and do no shows in dc nigga ( never ! )
i'm the streets hottest youngin ( fire ! ) and it's 'bout to get chilly ( aww ! )
fuck a 3 hunna nigga i'm 3 milli ( bang bang ! )
( hook )
i'm coolin' with my glizzies ( glizzies , bow ! )
and bitch we run the city ( we run the city )
nigga i'm 3 milli ( aww ! ) i'mma catch your grandmother and shoot her in her titties ( blew blew blew blew ! )
don't be fuckin' with my glizzies ( glizzies ! ) bad boys like diddy ( bow ! )
keep talkin' bout designer lil nigga you filthy ( bang bang ! )
you keep that shit 3 hunna ( bang bang ! ) i keep that shit 3 milli ( bang bang ! )
catch you ridin' around in that audi i'mma hit you with this semi ( skurt ! bow ! )
( scarface skit )
" you wanna go to war ? come on. you wanna go to war ? we take you to war , okay ! "
ion like !
sneak dissers that's that shit i don't like !
ay keef , i thought you ain't like sneak disses either nigga ?
fake ass young nigga
look...
( verse 2 )
big 30s that's that shit i really like ( bow ! )
lil dirty niggas , that's that shit i don't like ( i don't like ! )
beefin' all on twitter , that's that shit i don't like ( don't like ! )
ain't even livin' already tryna lose ya life ( aww ! )
gucci with tennis shoes , that's that shit i don't like ( don't like ! )
i got on jimmy choo's , that's that shit your bitch like ! ( bitch like ! )
dick riding , that's that shit i don't like ( don't like ! )
look up to niggas eatin' ass shawdy you a dike ( ugh ! )
nigga you ain't no migo why the fuck they call you sosa ? ( sosa ! )
in jail we played spades , bluffin' niggas played poker ( what you know ? )
stop talkin' like you out here , nigga you on house arrest
run up in yo house and lay yo whole fuckin' house to rest ( blew blew blew blew ! )
young street nigga , all i do is get money
i don't like these niggas , i think these niggas funny
i never been to chicago , but my favorite team the bulls ( my bulls ! )
ain't eatin' off this rap shit , my trap keep me full ( mm ! )
you want 5 m's for a verse ( verse ) that's my shoes and shirt ( shirt )
give my young nigga 5 hunna , he a put you in a hearse ( get at me ! )
had my niggas fuckin' with you , now they out to get you ( to get cha ! )
i just shitted , now gon spend 3 hunna on some tissue ( aww ! )
ion likeee !
ion likeee !
bang bang !