epic rap battles of history !
skrillex versus mozart !
begin !
my name is skrillex , man ! welcome to the devil's den
i'm a scary monster stomping this sprite in frilly pants
you're a weirdo , wolfy , you're into powdered wigs & poop !
and your cousin blew notes on your little magic flute
your daddy issues make the jackson 5 look like the family circus !
you might have been a genius but you died baroque and worthless !
i'm rich , acclaimed , and famous , i'm on playlists , i'm the a - list !
you're the lamest , kiss my ass a - a - a - a - amadeus
was that a verse , or did you just get the hiccups ?
i'm a prodigy , sonny , and i'm about to smack a bitch up !
my music is 200 years old , and it's still excellent !
in two more months the world will forget about your skrill - excrement
i can't believe the way you dress when you dubstep out of the house
you're like an emo steve urkel and you *ooh* reek of dead mouse !
i am the world's greatest composer ! no one knows what you are !
except a lonely little troll who knows how to press a spacebar !
i attack ! you decay ! can't sustain my releases !
sidechain , wolfgang , bangarang you to pieces
i'm a self - made man , you're a slave to your papa !
i'm a r - r - r - rock star , mix you with the bass and drop ya !
global ! my strobes glow like chernobyl !
kids explode and get mobile ! no one even knows you !
i make the whole world move ! you play community theatre !
i gained your same fame from home on a blown out speaker !
oh yes , i've heard that ep , and see i transcribed it here
tell me , what comes after the 68th measure of diarrhea ?
and what kind of drugs does it take to enjoy this ? i've no idea !
i've seen more complexity in a couch from ikea
you go piano to fortississimo , that means soft to very very loud
cause i'm guessing that you didn't know !
why don't you put down your cubase & pick up a real bow ?
i rocked harder than you when i was 5 years old !
who won ?
who's next ?
you decide !
epic rap b - b - b - b - b - battles !
of history