french narrator : ah , the krusty krab. bikini bottom's premiere daytime eatery. where it will be closing time right about...
tom : are you open ?
tom : i'll have a krabby patty deluxe and a double chili kelp fries
squidward : no , you won't ! i can't hang out here all night ! i've got a life
tom : well fine , if you don't want my money !
spongebob : wow ! now we never have to stop working !
squidward : mr. krabs..
squidward : mr. krabs ?
squidward : no
spongebob : good ! 'cause we've got customers !
squidward : that's where the dumpster is , yes
squidward : but i thought you liked the night shift
squidward : so you're not afraid ?
spongebob : pfft , nah
squidward : you don't remember ? it was all over the news
spongebob : tell me ! tell me !
spongebob : the slash - bringing hasher ?
squidward : the hash - slinging slasher !
spongebob : the sash - ringing , the trash - singing , mash - flinging , the flash - springing , ringing , the cr - crash - dinging , daa
squidward : years ago at this very restaurant , the hash - slinging slasher used to be a fry cook - just like you - only clumsier. and then , one night , when he was cutting the patties ...it happened
spongebob : he forgot the secret sauce ?
squidward : no
spongebob : he didn't wash his hands ?
squidward : no !
spongebob : irregular portions ?
squidward : no ! he cut off his own hand by mistake
squidward : so it didn't grow back ! !
squidward : and he replaced his hand with a rusty spatula. and then , he got hit by a bus ! and...at his funeral , they fired him ! so now , every...what day is it ?
spongebob : tuesday
squidward : tuesday night , his ghost returns to the krusty krab to wreak his horrible vengeance
squidward : then he'll be coming
spongebob : how will we know ?
squidward : there are three signs that signal the approach of the hash - slinging slasher. first , the lights will flicker on and off. next...
spongebob : no
spongebob : what ?
squidward : you really want to know ?
spongebob : what ?
squidward : are you sure you want to know ?
spongebob : what , what , what does he do ? ! ? !
spongebob : what ?
squidward : it's not true ! none of it's true !
spongebob : it's not ?
squidward : of course not. nobody has a spatula for a hand. it was all a joke
squidward is shown at the counter reading a book. squidward hears spooky noises and feels water dripping on him but he doesn't know what it is
spongebob : what ?
spongebob : hey squidward , how are you doing that without moving the switch ?
squidward : nice try , what ?
squidward : the sash - ringing , flash - singing , the bash - pinging...
squidward : at last you understand ! we're doomed !
squidward : spongebob , no matter what i've said , i've always sort of liked you !
spongebob : squidward , i used your clarinet to unclog my toilet !
spongebob : do you have references ?
spongebob , squidward and the unnamed guy : nosferatu !