man don't you know that i'm loco
uh - huh , hmm... i was chillin , right around my way ( way ! )
21st eastside of the beach
this motherfucker ran up on me
talkin shit with his homies like he was a straight.. g
askin where i'm from while he runnin up
gangbang , my set on e'ry one of 'em ( true )
some things , sons they just won't change
fools don't respect nuttin but the gangbang ( bang ! )
what's seen is what's saw , dogg is the law
i have you niggas runnin like a marathon
little g's tryna creep , on the east with it
talkin 'bout they gon' get my chain and they gon' leave with it ( nmm hmm ! )
but they don't know once they get close
it's tic - tac toe , three motherfuckers laid on the floor ( watch out ! )
yeah , this happened yesterday
on the west they spray - i heard the ese say , he said...
vato , you won't believe what i saw
i saw these pack of guys and they act real hard ( and what they do ? )
they twist the fingers and said , " you know who we are "
he said , " i don't give a fuck , i'm snoop doggy dogg " ( uh huh ! )
they keep buckin and it went too far
so snoopy , he went straight to the trunk of his car ( and what he get ? )
he got his gun and they start runnin' hard
he started firing and then he just charged
( blaoww ! ) run nigga , run nigga !
( blaoww ! ) duck nigga , duck nigga !
( blaoww ! ) run , motherfucker run !
( blaoww ! ) run , motherfucker run !
i didn't mean to hit what i hit
now that's three motherfuckers dead now i ain't seen shit
but these niggas'll scream for plea
but for a g like me , it's just a case really you could see
i crack the mac back and pop off rollin
and smack ya neck back , ya drop off , fallin
i haven't seen my momma in a week
and she ain't even ran her mouth about me
fuck that , i ain't give a fuck about the law
niggas say they wanna brawl , you would think that they were brawlers
believing all the things that you never saw
in it y'all , been a dogg , smoke you like a menthol
you think you know ? but this can't go
you think you'll blow ? on my door ? what the fuck yo !
see these niggas proceed to speed
so fulfill the need to leave or you'll hear my enemies goin...
i wouldn't be the nigga that i am
if i didn't pop niggas in their mouth god... damn !
and snoop'll keep one foot on the streets
and leave 'em covered in sheets , run with them niggas with the heat
you never seen a thug like dis
you never seen a dub like me
and i ain't weak for wanting peace
in fact i could be " beast of the east " motherfucker !
i never hesitate to blaze ( blaze ! )
a nigga really tryna change his ways
we gotta move my team , cause my peoples
is screaming that we need more for fun or it's illegal
put the bang on the song , make it feel like a drive - by ( drive - by ! )
it's a shame but somebody's gotta die ( die ! )
they see it happens state - to - state
but when i'm mobbin l.a. , all i hear the ese's say - they go...
snoop dogg , him bust gunshots
skateboard p , they say him bust gunshots
dpg , them bust gunshots
bbc , you know them bust gunshots ( come again , now ! )
snoop dogg , him bust gunshots
skateboard p , you know him bust gunshots ( come again , now ! )
bbc , them bust gunshots
dpgc , you know them bust gunshots ( come again , now ! )
i'm tired of hearin all that bullshit
when you gon' play some of that good shit... damn
i mean give me some like a...