season 1
the target : " ...when it's not your turn " - mcnulty
the detail : " you cannot lose if you don't play " - marla daniels
the buys : " the king stay the king " - d'angelo
old cases : " it's a thin line 'tween heaven and here " - bubbles
the pager : " ...a little slow , a little late " - avon
the wire : " ...and all the pieces matter " - lester
one arrest : " a man must have a code " - bunk
lessons : " come at the king , you best not miss " - omar
game day : " maybe we won " - herc
the cost : " and then he dropped the bracelets " - kima
the hunt : " dope on the damn table " - daniels
cleaning up : " this is me , yo , right here " - wallace
sentencing : " all in the game... " - traditional west baltimore
season 2
ebb tide : " ain't never gonna be what it was " - little big roy
collateral damage : " they can chew you up , but they gotta spit you out " - mcnulty
hot shots : " what they need is a union " - beadie russell
hard cases : " if i hear music , i'm gonna dance " - kima
undertow : " they used to make steel there , no ? " - spiros
all prologue : " it don't matter that some fool say he different... "
- d'angelo
backwash : " don't worry kid. you're still on the clock " - horseface
duck and cover : " how come they don't fly away ? " - ziggy
stray rounds : " the world is a smaller place now " - the greek
storm warnings : " it pays to go with the union card everytime "
- ziggy
bad dreams : " i need to get clean " - frank sobotka
port in a storm : " business. always business " - the greek
season 3
time after time : " don't matter how many times you get burnt , you just keep doin' the same. " - bodie
all due respect : " there's never been a paper bag " - bunny colvin
dead soldiers : " the gods will not save you " - burrell
hamsterdam : " why you gotta go and fuck with the program ? " - fruit
straight and true : " i had such fucking hopes for us " - mcnulty
homecoming : " just a gangster , i suppose " - avon
back burners : " conscience do cost " - butchie
moral midgetry : " crawl , walk , and then run " - clay davis
slapstick : " ...while you're waiting for moments that never come "
- lester
reformation : " call it a crisis of leadership " - prop joe
middle ground : " we ain't gotta dream no more , man " - stringer
mission accomplished : " ...we fight on that lie " - slim charles
season 4
boys of summer : " lambs to the slaughter here " - marcia donnelly
soft eyes : " i still wake up white in a city that ain't " - carcetti
home rooms : " i love the first day , man. everybody all friendly and shit " - namond
refugees : " no one wins. one side just loses more slowly " - prez
alliances : " if you with us , you with us " - chris partlow
margin of error : " don't try this shit at home " - norman wilson
unto others : " aw yeah. that golden rule " - bunk
corner boys : " we got our thing , but it's just part of the big thing "
- zenobia
know your place : " might as well dump em , get another " - prop joe
misgivings : " world going one way , people another " - poot
a new day : " you play in dirt , you get dirty " - mcnulty
that's got his own : " that all there is to it ? " - bubbles
final grades : " if animal trapped call 410 - 844 - 6286 " - baltimore , traditional
season 5
more with less : " the bigger the lie , the more they believe " - bunk
unconfirmed reports : " this ain't aruba , bitch " - bunk
not for attribution : " they're dead where it doesn't count " - fletcher
transitions : " buyer's market out there " - scott templeton
react quotes : " just 'cause they’re in the street doesn't mean that they lack opinions. " - gus
the dickensian aspect : " if you have a problem with this , i understand completely. " - lester
took : " they don't teach it in law school " - ronnie pearlman
clarifications : " a lie ain't a side of the story , it's just a lie. " - terry
late editions : " deserve got nuthin' to do with it " - snoop
- 30 - : " ...the life of kings " - h.l. mencken