walk right , walk right in
walk right , walk right in
walk right in
i was telling everybody up your speed
that was a couple of years ago
and now i'm revving up for deliverance
switching up gears , got a couple of years to go
super slow !
here we go ! as soon as you hear that , go !
liverpool to portsmouth , yeah
that chorus got the crowd screaming
ooooh oh , ooooh oh !
i got the people screaming
ooooh oh , ooooh oh !
click , click , here strap
seat belt derek's back !
time to blow like i'm dynamo
no more disappearing act
i know you miss me , i miss you too !
sometimes that's what a mist will do
like taio i was cruising
now it's time to take my steering back
one of the best to ever do , they say
a testament to this game ( they say ! )
and even in the wind i never blew it ( they say ! )
i swayed but kept in my lane
they call me fleetwood mac
i’m a mac with a mac with a fleet
still getting royalties
no spoiler but i spoil me !
i got the crowd screaming
ooooh oh , ooooh oh !
i got the people screaming
ooooh oh , ooooh oh !
make some noise !
still speeding !
i got the world screaming k.a.’s back ! yeah , it’s official
trumpets , please ! no kicks , but brother this is the rizzle
slick rick bitch , the ruler's here for shizzle
k.a. and sway , game over ! blow the whistle !
music you got as shoe's fit too , paint these pictures so visual
mc’s wanna come spit too and girls wanna go and shake hips too !
i’m still speeding , you don’t wanna meet me at the light
rear view mirror , ain't a thing in sight
they try to give me a ticket
but i ripped it like a raffle
tell them people i am mr. derek safo
i'm still speeding !
pedal to the metal on a level i ain't gonna settle
for anything less than gold i ain't gonna meddle around about
and up down and trying to build since i was like a kid but never had the lego
running through the fields and the medals of ally pally
and now i'm on a hill , if geppetto was able to make a fake boy real
i can definitely make a real hard boy as steel !
i ain't gonna stop until i do a couple of millions
i gave them my demo , now it's time to do a deal again !
i'm back up on the bill again , i'm fresh from the bank , bob's your uncle !
mine's uncle phil again
because i've got the willpower and the potential
and i got the credentials , all of the essentials
when it gets stressful my bp rises
but i'm never gonna stop unless i need to get petrol
still speedin' !