i'm representing for my people all across the world
no longer rolling in them polos girl
taking my time , to perfect the beat
and i've still got love for the streets
still sway again my brother , aim , spray my brother
switch to the you , we shot so many clips ? ak , my brother
i ain't talking about straps
far from that
in fact , it's pay day my brother
i was dropping tapes from early
ray j , my brother
when i was in college i was rolling like a kk
i studied the chronic and i bagged myself a straight a
they're calling my deliverance 'detox'
i admit it's been a straight wait
but that happens when they classify your debut shit as grade a
and you ain't up all day
mister sway's still the name , still ahead of my game
i made them holla " swag , swag " , that's what i was known for
told them " up your speed " , what the fuck you going slow for ?
used to ride in that focus , and pop in that casette
now we're on a different type of focus , still poppin like we're wretch
don't be fooled by them specs , i'm peter parker , pay respects
and i'm getting popular but no populous , i go hard when i'm on that web
?
?
?
?
used to dream about being in the building
now we occupy our own floor
i'm representing for my people all across the world
no longer rolling in them polos girl
taking my time , to perfect the beat
and i've still got love for the streets
still sway and kane
i'm representing for my people all across the world
no longer rolling in them poloss girl
taking my time , to perfect the beat
and i've still got love for the streets
still sway and kane
now which motherfucker wants to be kano
eenie , meenie , minie , mo
jamie knows i'm serious
? reaching back
when i was linking william up on roman road
you ain't fucking with my rap
fucking with my clique
mercedes advert , fucking with your retina
and tell the little pussies talk is cheap
and i probably fucked your bird
so why would i need to tweet ?
niggas we're still beasts
red bull fridge , so why would i need to sleep ?
left eye open , so why would i need to creep ?
i'll do me and get the mill
so why would i need to meek ?
london , i rep that east , but a nigga branched out like a family tree
uk on the map and i fly that flag when i'm overseas
been beirut and syria before that war got deep
me and bashy out in australia with a merc on bondi beach
passport crazy , yeah they love me out in lagos
but they thought i done 419 , the way the pape's strong
and i don't mean to stunt , but this a vivi westwood
and yours are mr. sherman and i don't mean to klump