they said i was a narcissist. well narcissist this !
trick ! yeah ! strange music baby !
( he's a mental giant )
that's what they say
( he's a mental giant )
to those who nay - say
hey , hey
hey ! i'm lookin' down on you niggas
even though i'm 5'8″ & 195 pound on you niggas
so tall i can't even hear any of the sound you deliver
me and my partners never see any of the hateful frowning you give us
cause we splat little bitty braggin' wack rappers
you happen to be the bastard that got mashed up
but down to the simple fact here's a strap past ya , blast at ya
that's after the yappin' i put the cash in my last chapter , that's laughter
half path up a vast money break , imagine a black dracula
smashin' 'em with the gat , upper class stature
it went to my head as my first time
to be cocky , i'm just a giant when i burst rhyme
my leg is humongous , is ya'll's verse mine ?
stomping 'em out , i can't stop my leg like robert klein
giant robot make you feel very low shank
i am so hot , in my skills there be propane
why i'm gon' squash them and kill every poor thing
cause i'm a huge , pillsbury dough mane
narcissistic , hard to grip it
dark and wicked , art's prolific
mars with the stars , this is far lifted
lyrics , quit the bawitibaw scriptures are terrific
get a spitter with a bit of bitter marketed
with scrilla then a fifth of henny liquor , start to twist it
critters sit and shiver in the slit of zillas
pit of killers , gritters hit a click of silly niggas are fictitious
on top of the game , i'm dropping the rain , godly gifted
hop in your lane and stopping your fame , bark is vicious
you got bars to witness , ya'll submissive
when i get your brain your thoughts is shifted
i'm incredible , highly technical meant for triumph , raw intricate
i need medical then more science , scars and stitches
alphabetical gems blow by him , pause a tidbit
tech n9ne a mental giant !
mentally i'm like shaq on stilts
strange music inc. is white and black owned built
for keeping rap on tilt
like drinking patron and jack prone then yack on silk quilts
got a fat dome that'll last long if that's where i'm skilled
giant , huge , humongous , gigantic , expanded
been floating for years and i ain't landed
haters can't stand it the way that my noggin is big as kansas
but the women that listen wanna know if i'm talking 'bout my damn dick
yadda , they think my head big... ask her if my head big
haha , yadda ! yeah , tech n9ne !