i see you looking at me
( psst , hahaha , over here )
looking at me , so i ask
am i a psycho ?
am i a psycho ?
yeah , i’m a psycho
i guess i’m a psycho
you’re crazy ! i like you , but you’re crazy
my tours paid me , so i used that dough to allure ladies
to manure bathe me
never that , my mind's for sure shady
pure hades , rev x steady couldn’t endure to save me
why do i let this stripper burn me on my arm with a cigarette in the same spot ten times in a row ?
when i felt that burn , i palm the clitoris , i'ma get her wet
sorry to get carried away
i feel stupid 'cause i ain’t did her yet
maybe she never let a fine nigga stare at her breasts
i get vexed so n9ne bit her neck
open ! i try to contain it , but that dame thang’s soakin'
alter ego say : " why you let them gangbang folk in ? "
strange lane hopin' i can maintain copin'
but ain’t nobody talkin' when the insane mane spoken
i like fire on my skin , blood on my draws
from up on her walls , i’m sufferin' , i’m stuck in her claws
stuffed in her jaws , huffin' and puffin' , hollerin' , i'm a dog
afterwards i like really hot scaldin' water on my balls
am i a psycho ?
am i a psycho ?
yeah , i’m a psycho
i guess i’m a psycho
mom ? dad ? i’m no longer the boy you're used to seein'
i’ve changed a lot , plus i’ve grown to hate every human bein'
my mood swings have now turned
my dreams into gruesome scenes
now i’m doin' things i don’t normally do when illusion seem
to be the only pleasures i can gain
heck , if i was sane i would've put down the mic
and said , " fuck it , i'll never rise to fame. "
but with the wicked wreckage i contain
i could probably jeopardize your name
no lovey - dovey , let’s ignite the flame
if you’re lucky you'll survive the pain
sorry , that ain't very merry to say
why is this game so scary to play ?
well , let me think , 'cause every day
my balls are gettin' too hairy to shave
pause a minute , i'm stressin' again
if i go to hell , then heaven's to blame
i don’t mean to come off crazy
but you mothafuckas seem to think i’m hella deranged
when i was seven years old
i fell on my head and i severed my brain
if you think i’m lyin' , then ask my mama
nigga , she'll go tell you the same—
should i be ashamed ? no
i’m livin' my life so ghetto fabulous
before you get bent out of shape
my nigga , let me ask you this
am i a psycho ?
am i a psycho ?
yeah , i’m a psycho
i guess i’m a psycho
i stab you with this mic , and rap this verse i'm rappin' to you
matter of fact , i’m rappin' through you
never say my motherfuckin' name
unless you absolutely have to
i am not no fuckin' jacket with no matchin' shoes
and you are not no fashion guru
can’t even see you niggas , y'all wish i was rappin' to you
matter of fact , act like i'm rappin' to you
if that gives you passion to use this as an excuse
then just jump up out of conclusion
that i'm attackin' you dudes ; it's just like old - fashion voodoo
y'all ain’t even the shit , no , y'all ain’t even the doodoo
i got more flavor on the tissue paper under my two boots
so i’m slappin' you fools with wooden paddles , you stupid
babysittin' little bastards like little afternoon children
you can call me psychotic , but it’s more like schizophrenic
and i can't sleep , can anyone tell me
just where my medicine is ?
guess i gotta show these minors just what my avenue is
man , i swear i'm all about my brain like graduate students
i'm sorry , i didn't mean to hurt your feelings
i see your tears , come here , give me your face , let me clear it
but i wonder how it would look
if i were to peel it back with a skillet
then i'ma feel it crack when i hit it
then i'ma split it back when you heal it
damn it , bobby boy ! what in the hell ?
what in the heaven ? what in the earth ?
where is your mom ? what are you , cursed ?
where are you from ? where was your birth ?
where was you first ? why weren’t you in church ?
why is there dirt all on your shirt ?
man , i think that you’re goin' berserk
am i a psycho ?
am i a psycho ?
yeah , i’m a psycho
i guess i’m a psycho
am i a psycho ?
am i a psycho ?
yeah , i’m a psycho
i guess i’m a psycho