( johnny juliano )
( cardo got wings )
real nigga shit
other night at your crib , it was like me , black , 40 , ob
we just sittin' there , talkin' 'bout life
played some beats , but i forgot to tell you one thing
niggas called me to set you up
want me to come and wet you up
cause you a out of town nigga like biggie
heard about the shit with diddy
so i came through to vest you up
and i got a vest for 40 , a vest for hush
a vest for every nigga with an owl on his chest and what
i got l.a. unified
you better off committin' suicide , teachers ain't testin' us
see , i know how it feel to be platinum - plus
niggas is jealous of you , so they try to wrap you up
tax you up , but it's ovo/blood money
nigga catch these bullets like he catch the bus
dawg , fame is a motherfucker
do a nigga four favors when you can’t do the fifth
how soon they forget ?
run up on you at your granny house , give you nine like fif'
how a nigga s'posed to love you niggas ?
heart beatin' fast when i dap and when i hug you niggas
dre told me not to trust you niggas
your energy off , you're finicky , i rush you niggas
just walkin' 'round the crib like , " why a nigga can’t live ? "
get this money , fuck these bitches though
thinkin' 'bout the beef like :
" we can pass these mothafuckin' straps like a physical "
this my city , nigga , everybody know it
ridin' 'round town , just me and my four pound
tucked in my tom fords , hopin' i ain't gotta show it
l.a. niggas , be the craziest , these niggas do some shady shit
niggas'll run up on your car , catch you off guard
like the lil wayne and baby shit , 40 , i'm fucked up
y'all better not come to my studio with that fake shit
y'all better not come to my funeral with that fake shit
y'all better off realizin' there's nothin' that y'all could do with me
all i ever asked is keep it eight more than 92 with me , one hundred
l.a. niggas be the craziest , yeah , one hundred
l.a. , all i ever asked is one hundred
l.a. , l.a. niggas be the craziest , yeah , one hundred
all i ever asked is one hundred
thank me later , thanks for nothin' , thanks for bluffin'
thank you so , so much for wearin' your true colors
to every single fuckin' function
had niggas tell me to my face how we were family
and how they love me while they were skimmin' off the budget
now , when i see 'em , they're the ones that's actin' funny
people been reachin' out to me
and i'm on some straight unresponsive shit
i would have so many friends
if i didn't have money , respect and accomplishments
i would have so many friends
if i held back the truth and i just gave out compliments
i would have all of your fans if i didn't go poppin'
i stayed on some conscious shit
i would have so many more friends
if i lost my success and my confidence
i'm in the club every time that they play the competition
if they even play the competition and i seen the response they get
yeah , nobody's even hearin' it , on top of the pyramid
might go to jamaica , disappear again
my circle got so small that it's a period , sayin' to myself...
y'all better not come to my studio with that fake shit
y'all better not come to my funeral with that fake shit
y'all better off realizin' there's nothin' that y'all could do with me
all i ever asked is keep it eight more than 92 with me , one hundred
l.a. niggas be the craziest , yeah , one hundred
l.a. , all i ever asked is one hundred
l.a. , l.a. niggas be the craziest , yeah , one hundred
all i ever asked is one hundred
miss 4 cent , that was my real nigga
held a nigga down since he was a lil' nigga
if he was still alive , he would kill niggas
he was lil snupe , i was meek mill
niggas know how it feel when you missin' your nigga though
can't think , so you roll up that indigo
stressin' while drivin' down figuero'
blowin' kush clouds until his ghost is in my ghost , damn
make a real nigga wanna give his life to god like , " here it go "
screamin' frog name at the clouds , they don't hear me though
guess they too busy with 2pac and biggie though
you niggas don't feel me though
that was on suge's watch , i'll take suge's watch
you dissin' drizzy , that's cool , but don't come to my city though
not even to h - town
so underground that i gotta be a trill nigga
strapped up from the waist down
that's word to pimp c , j prince is my real nigga
shit was so simple when henchman was out
he had a young nigga right there with meech
so happy when bleu davinci got out
we came up on these california streets
l.a. niggas be the craziest , these niggas do some shady shit
niggas'll run up on your car , catch you off guard
like the lil wayne and baby shit
got a nigga confused , but why a nigga gotta choose ?
don't even matter , dawg , cause i'm a always be a real nigga
always be a real nigga
i never learned how to be nothin' but a real nigga
y'all better not come to my studio with that fake shit
y'all better not come to my funeral with that fake shit
y'all better off realizin' there's nothin' that y'all could do with me
all i ever asked is keep it eight more than 92 with me , one hundred
l.a. niggas be the craziest , yeah , one hundred
l.a. , all i ever asked is one hundred
l.a. , l.a. niggas be the craziest , yeah , one hundred
all i ever asked is one hundred