scene i. a public house. tony , rich and chris are sitting at a table with pints of beer , conducting an interview
chris : right , tape's rolling
tony : really ? you still use tape ?
chris : nah , just a figure of speech. " hard disk's whirring " doesn't have the same ring to it. right , shall we talk about the band ?
rich : if we must
tony : don't take any notice of this miserable git , we're thrilled to be back. it's unfinished business , we've still got tons to prove , and even more to say
chris : great. we'll come back to that in a minute but , just to kick things off , memories of the early days ?
tony : if you can remember it you weren't there , ha , ha ! nah , seriously , heady days , heady days... we were like brothers
tony : all for one !
chris : what happened ? you were just starting to get somewhere when pete left , right ?
tony : didn't wanna risk giving up his day job
chris : you mean... ?
rich : we thought we were unbeatable , him singing my songs , we thought the whole world would get it , and we thought we had something to say , or i did , anyway. never been sure about anyone else. you know what it's like , at twenty you want to change the world but by forty you're alarmed to find it has changed and you'd rather like it put back the way you found it
chris : well now , of course , people are getting it and reunion rumours have been doing the rounds for a while , only there'd always been talk of insurmountable acrimony between you two
tony : crap ! i love this bloke. always have , always will
rich : acrimony ? nah , not really. we... we were holding each other back , as though we only had one life between us , so each of us was only half - alive except when we were working. you can carry on like that for a bit , when you're young , especially in an industry where stunted growth's a definite asset , only...
chris : you met up again at alan's funeral , right ?
rich : " up there " ? optimistic , aren't you ?
tony : you know me , mate , always look on the bright side
chris : right. this is obviously a painful subject so we'll move on. after the band split , tony went solo and did pretty well for a while
tony : can't complain , i've had a good run and i'm so grateful to everyone who's kept the faith ; i'm told my stuff's really popular on these new streaming , er , you know...
rich : platforms ?
tony : yeah , that's it , streaming platforms ! so the future's looking good
rich : you might want to check your royalty statements. i got 23p in streaming income for the whole of last year
tony : bloody hell , you've been had , mate !
rich : you don't read your statements , do you ? i'm getting songwriting and performing royalties. you'll've had about a penny for that same stuff
chris : moving swiftly on... the band only ever made one album , plus those amazing singles now collected on the recorded sound boxed set via the well - known vanish crowd - funding site
tony : we're already at 75% of our goal , and only a month into the campaign ! people've been so generous. actually we're meeting some of the fans who've signed up tomorrow , really looking forward to putting faces to... er...
rich : credit card details ?
rich : especially you
chris : what's it been like listening to stuff you recorded all those years ago ? what can we expect ?
tony : wait and see !
rich : it's like being set up on a date with an ex - wife : incredibly familiar and utterly strange. you remember why you were so in love but also why you split up. then , of course , the kids have flown the coop...
tony : sounds fantastic to me. i've recorded some top tunes over the years but nothing ever came close to this bloke's stuff... i just opened my gob...
chris : speaking of kids... rich , your daughter amanda's running the campaign and your old manager harry's on board too. you've got the old gang back together , haven't you ?
tony : we're a family and amanda's the brains , takes after her mum , god rest her soul. as for harry , he was always the fifth member , couldn't do it without any of 'em
chris : how come he never managed you as a solo artist ? d'you fall out ?
tony : nah ! top bloke , harry. just wasn't meant to be
rich : i certainly wouldn't've done this without him