a hotel lobby. tony , rich and harry are sitting around a table
harry : right you two , they'll be here soon , so behave
tony : run this past me one more time : why're we doing this ?
harry : these people have coughed up cash on vanish and , for reasons best - known to themselves , they want to meet you. i've tried to warn them...
tony : oh right , flesh - pressing then , is it ? mind you , s'pose they'll all be blokes
harry : best behaviour , tony
tony : don't worry , i'm a professional , me
rich : i'm not , i'm an academic
tony : and don't we all bloody know it. hmm , bet they'll all be weirdoes
rich : you mean only weirdoes like us ?
rich : and would've been a huge disappointment if they had. yes , that was part of the contract , wasn't it ?
tony : i don't remember signing anything like that. then again there's tons of stuff i don't remember signing. heady days...
rich : i'm talking about the unwritten contract all artists have with their audiences. that's why these crowd - funding things make me uncomfortable. i mean , in the old days the artist'd say " here's my album , hope you like my startling new musical direction " . with a bit of luck , the audience'd say " do you know what , artist old chum ? we do like it. have more cash than a sensible person could spend yea unto the seventh generation " . nowadays the artist goes " if you give me some money i'll make an album. it'll be dead good , honest. " the audience say " hmm , all right then , but none of your weird stuff , ok ? in fact make it a bit like the hit album , y'know , the really good one. only a bit different , obviously... " neither side has the faintest idea what the other wants. in any case , the whole point about art is that you produce your work then lay it before the world. this is closer to venture capitalism , like a business funding a boffin's research in the hope it might produce something marketable
harry : you always were too clever for your own good , rich
tony : bloody teacher's pet
rich : even so , we've got a duty of care , haven't we ? i mean , the thing about tony here is that when he opens his gob and sings , people have a tendency to believe him , god help them. they take the stuff i put in his mouth seriously ; i mean , they play our bloody songs at their weddings
harry : mostly funerals nowadays , i think , rich
rich : er , yeah , now you mention it...
rich : i did mean it. once that sincerity's gone the whole deal's off. in fact , sometimes i think the whole music industry's in breach of contract and that's why we've ended up where we are. we dropped the mirror
tony : i never got into coke. mug's game
rich : i mean the mirror we were supposed to be holding up to people's lives
harry : pretty much , yeah
harry : that's no way to talk about your patrons , tony