emma could not feel a doubt of having given harriet's fancy a proper direction and raised the gratitude of her young vanity to a very good purpose , for she found her decidedly more sensible than before of mr. elton's being a remarkably handsome man , with most agreeable manners ; and as she had no hesitation in following up the assurance of his admiration by agreeable hints , she was soon pretty confident of creating as much liking on harriet's side , as there could be any occasion for. she was quite convinced of mr. elton's being in the fairest way of falling in love , if not in love already. she had no scruple with regard to him. he talked of harriet , and praised her so warmly , that she could not suppose any thing wanting which a little time would not add. his perception of the striking improvement of harriet's manner , since her introduction at hartfield , was not one of the least agreeable proofs of his growing attachment.
" you have given miss smith all that she required , " said he ; " you have made her graceful and easy. she was a beautiful creature when she came to you , but , in my opinion , the attractions you have added are infinitely superior to what she received from nature. "
" i am glad you think i have been useful to her ; but harriet only wanted drawing out , and receiving a few , very few hints. she had all the natural grace of sweetness of temper and artlessness in herself. i have done very little. "
" if it were admissible to contradict a lady , " said the gallant mr. elton—
" i have perhaps given her a little more decision of character , have taught her to think on points which had not fallen in her way before. "
" exactly so ; that is what principally strikes me. so much superadded decision of character ! skilful has been the hand ! "
" great has been the pleasure , i am sure. i never met with a disposition more truly amiable. "
" i have no doubt of it. " and it was spoken with a sort of sighing animation , which had a vast deal of the lover. she was not less pleased another day with the manner in which he seconded a sudden wish of hers , to have harriet's picture.
" did you ever have your likeness taken , harriet ? " said she : " did you ever sit for your picture ? "
harriet was on the point of leaving the room , and only stopt to say , with a very interesting naivete ,
" oh ! dear , no , never. "
no sooner was she out of sight , than emma exclaimed ,
" what an exquisite possession a good picture of her would be ! i would give any money for it. i almost long to attempt her likeness myself. you do not know it i dare say , but two or three years ago i had a great passion for taking likenesses , and attempted several of my friends , and was thought to have a tolerable eye in general. but from one cause or another , i gave it up in disgust. but really , i could almost venture , if harriet would sit to me. it would be such a delight to have her picture ! "
" let me entreat you , " cried mr. elton ; " it would indeed be a delight ! let me entreat you , miss woodhouse , to exercise so charming a talent in favour of your friend. i know what your drawings are. how could you suppose me ignorant ? is not this room rich in specimens of your landscapes and flowers ; and has not mrs. weston some inimitable figure - pieces in her drawing - room , at randalls ? "
yes , good man ! —thought emma—but what has all that to do with taking likenesses ? you know nothing of drawing. don't pretend to be in raptures about mine. keep your raptures for harriet's face. " well , if you give me such kind encouragement , mr. elton , i believe i shall try what i can do. harriet's features are very delicate , which makes a likeness difficult ; and yet there is a peculiarity in the shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth which one ought to catch. "
" exactly so—the shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth—i have not a doubt of your success. pray , pray attempt it. as you will do it , it will indeed , to use your own words , be an exquisite possession. "
" but i am afraid , mr. elton , harriet will not like to sit. she thinks so little of her own beauty. did not you observe her manner of answering me ? how completely it meant , 'why should my picture be drawn ? ' "
" oh ! yes , i observed it , i assure you. it was not lost on me. but still i cannot imagine she would not be persuaded. "
harriet was soon back again , and the proposal almost immediately made ; and she had no scruples which could stand many minutes against the earnest pressing of both the others. emma wished to go to work directly , and therefore produced the portfolio containing her various attempts at portraits , for not one of them had ever been finished , that they might decide together on the best size for harriet. her many beginnings were displayed. miniatures , half - lengths , whole - lengths , pencil , crayon , and water - colours had been all tried in turn. she had always wanted to do every thing , and had made more progress both in drawing and music than many might have done with so little labour as she would ever submit to. she played and sang ; —and drew in almost every style ; but steadiness had always been wanting ; and in nothing had she approached the degree of excellence which she would have been glad to command , and ought not to have failed of. she was not much deceived as to her own skill either as an artist or a musician , but she was not unwilling to have others deceived , or sorry to know her reputation for accomplishment often higher than it deserved.
there was merit in every drawing—in the least finished , perhaps the most ; her style was spirited ; but had there been much less , or had there been ten times more , the delight and admiration of her two companions would have been the same. they were both in ecstasies. a likeness pleases every body ; and miss woodhouse's performances must be capital.
" no great variety of faces for you , " said emma. " i had only my own family to study from. there is my father—another of my father—but the idea of sitting for his picture made him so nervous , that i could only take him by stealth ; neither of them very like therefore. mrs. weston again , and again , and again , you see. dear mrs. weston ! always my kindest friend on every occasion. she would sit whenever i asked her. there is my sister ; and really quite her own little elegant figure ! —and the face not unlike. i should have made a good likeness of her , if she would have sat longer , but she was in such a hurry to have me draw her four children that she would not be quiet. then , here come all my attempts at three of those four children ; —there they are , henry and john and bella , from one end of the sheet to the other , and any one of them might do for any one of the rest. she was so eager to have them drawn that i could not refuse ; but there is no making children of three or four years old stand still you know ; nor can it be very easy to take any likeness of them , beyond the air and complexion , unless they are coarser featured than any of mama's children ever were. here is my sketch of the fourth , who was a baby. i took him as he was sleeping on the sofa , and it is as strong a likeness of his cockade as you would wish to see. he had nestled down his head most conveniently. that's very like. i am rather proud of little george. the corner of the sofa is very good. then here is my last , " —unclosing a pretty sketch of a gentleman in small size , whole - length— " my last and my best—my brother , mr. john knightley.—this did not want much of being finished , when i put it away in a pet , and vowed i would never take another likeness. i could not help being provoked ; for after all my pains , and when i had really made a very good likeness of it— ( mrs. weston and i were quite agreed in thinking it very like ) —only too handsome—too flattering—but that was a fault on the right side " —after all this , came poor dear isabella's cold approbation of— " yes , it was a little like—but to be sure it did not do him justice. we had had a great deal of trouble in persuading him to sit at all. it was made a great favour of ; and altogether it was more than i could bear ; and so i never would finish it , to have it apologised over as an unfavourable likeness , to every morning visitor in brunswick square ; —and , as i said , i did then forswear ever drawing any body again. but for harriet's sake , or rather for my own , and as there are no husbands and wives in the case at present , i will break my resolution now. "
mr. elton seemed very properly struck and delighted by the idea , and was repeating , " no husbands and wives in the case at present indeed , as you observe. exactly so. no husbands and wives , " with so interesting a consciousness , that emma began to consider whether she had not better leave them together at once. but as she wanted to be drawing , the declaration must wait a little longer.
she had soon fixed on the size and sort of portrait. it was to be a whole - length in water - colours , like mr. john knightley's , and was destined , if she could please herself , to hold a very honourable station over the mantelpiece.
the sitting began ; and harriet , smiling and blushing , and afraid of not keeping her attitude and countenance , presented a very sweet mixture of youthful expression to the steady eyes of the artist. but there was no doing any thing , with mr. elton fidgeting behind her and watching every touch. she gave him credit for stationing himself where he might gaze and gaze again without offence ; but was really obliged to put an end to it , and request him to place himself elsewhere. it then occurred to her to employ him in reading.
" if he would be so good as to read to them , it would be a kindness indeed ! it would amuse away the difficulties of her part , and lessen the irksomeness of miss smith's. "
mr. elton was only too happy. harriet listened , and emma drew in peace. she must allow him to be still frequently coming to look ; any thing less would certainly have been too little in a lover ; and he was ready at the smallest intermission of the pencil , to jump up and see the progress , and be charmed.—there was no being displeased with such an encourager , for his admiration made him discern a likeness almost before it was possible. she could not respect his eye , but his love and his complaisance were unexceptionable.
the sitting was altogether very satisfactory ; she was quite enough pleased with the first day's sketch to wish to go on. there was no want of likeness , she had been fortunate in the attitude , and as she meant to throw in a little improvement to the figure , to give a little more height , and considerably more elegance , she had great confidence of its being in every way a pretty drawing at last , and of its filling its destined place with credit to them both—a standing memorial of the beauty of one , the skill of the other , and the friendship of both ; with as many other agreeable associations as mr. elton's very promising attachment was likely to add.
harriet was to sit again the next day ; and mr. elton , just as he ought , entreated for the permission of attending and reading to them again.
" by all means. we shall be most happy to consider you as one of the party. "
the same civilities and courtesies , the same success and satisfaction , took place on the morrow , and accompanied the whole progress of the picture , which was rapid and happy. every body who saw it was pleased , but mr. elton was in continual raptures , and defended it through every criticism.
" miss woodhouse has given her friend the only beauty she wanted , " —observed mrs. weston to him—not in the least suspecting that she was addressing a lover.— " the expression of the eye is most correct , but miss smith has not those eyebrows and eyelashes. it is the fault of her face that she has them not. "
" do you think so ? " replied he. " i cannot agree with you. it appears to me a most perfect resemblance in every feature. i never saw such a likeness in my life. we must allow for the effect of shade , you know. "
" you have made her too tall , emma , " said mr. knightley.
emma knew that she had , but would not own it ; and mr. elton warmly added ,
" oh no ! certainly not too tall ; not in the least too tall. consider , she is sitting down—which naturally presents a different—which in short gives exactly the idea—and the proportions must be preserved , you know. proportions , fore - shortening.—oh no ! it gives one exactly the idea of such a height as miss smith's. exactly so indeed ! "
" it is very pretty , " said mr. woodhouse. " so prettily done ! just as your drawings always are , my dear. i do not know any body who draws so well as you do. the only thing i do not thoroughly like is , that she seems to be sitting out of doors , with only a little shawl over her shoulders—and it makes one think she must catch cold. "
" but , my dear papa , it is supposed to be summer ; a warm day in summer. look at the tree. "
" but it is never safe to sit out of doors , my dear. "
" you , sir , may say any thing , " cried mr. elton , " but i must confess that i regard it as a most happy thought , the placing of miss smith out of doors ; and the tree is touched with such inimitable spirit ! any other situation would have been much less in character. the naivete of miss smith's manners—and altogether—oh , it is most admirable ! i cannot keep my eyes from it. i never saw such a likeness. "
the next thing wanted was to get the picture framed ; and here were a few difficulties. it must be done directly ; it must be done in london ; the order must go through the hands of some intelligent person whose taste could be depended on ; and isabella , the usual doer of all commissions , must not be applied to , because it was december , and mr. woodhouse could not bear the idea of her stirring out of her house in the fogs of december. but no sooner was the distress known to mr. elton , than it was removed. his gallantry was always on the alert. " might he be trusted with the commission , what infinite pleasure should he have in executing it ! he could ride to london at any time. it was impossible to say how much he should be gratified by being employed on such an errand. "
" he was too good ! —she could not endure the thought ! —she would not give him such a troublesome office for the world , " —brought on the desired repetition of entreaties and assurances , —and a very few minutes settled the business.
mr. elton was to take the drawing to london , chuse the frame , and give the directions ; and emma thought she could so pack it as to ensure its safety without much incommoding him , while he seemed mostly fearful of not being incommoded enough.
" what a precious deposit ! " said he with a tender sigh , as he received it.
" this man is almost too gallant to be in love , " thought emma. " i should say so , but that i suppose there may be a hundred different ways of being in love. he is an excellent young man , and will suit harriet exactly ; it will be an 'exactly so , ' as he says himself ; but he does sigh and languish , and study for compliments rather more than i could endure as a principal. i come in for a pretty good share as a second. but it is his gratitude on harriet's account. "
