i think the christian saint and hero , instead of being merely dissatisfied , make deliberate sacrifice. i remember reading once an autobiography of a man who had made a daring journey in disguise to russian exiles in siberia , and his telling how , very timid as a child , he schooled himself by wandering at night through dangerous streets. saint and hero cannot be content to pass at moments to that hollow image and after become their heterogeneous selves , but would always , if they could , resemble the antithetical self. there is a shadow of type on type , for in all great poetical styles there is saint or hero , but when it is all over dante can return to his chambering and shakespeare to his “pottle pot.” they sought no impossible perfection but when they handled paper or parchment. so too will saint or hero , because he works in his own flesh and blood and not in paper or parchment , have more deliberate understanding of that other flesh and blood.
some years ago i began to believe that our culture , with its doctrine of sincerity and self - realisation , made us gentle and passive , and that the middle ages and the renaissance were right to found theirs upon the imitation of christ or of some classic hero. st. francis and caesar borgia made themselves over - mastering , creative persons by turning from the mirror to meditation upon a mask. when i had this thought i could see nothing else in life. i could not write the play i had planned , for all became allegorical , and though i tore up hundreds of pages in my endeavour to escape from allegory , my imagination became sterile for nearly five years and i only escaped at last when i had mocked in a comedy my own thought. i was always thinking of the element of imitation in style and in life , and of the life beyond heroic imitation. i find in an old diary : “i think all happiness depends on the energy to assume the mask of some other life , on a re - birth as something not one’s self , something created in a moment and perpetually renewed ; in playing a game like that of a child where one loses the infinite pain of self - realisation , in a grotesque or solemn painted face put on that one may hide from the terror of judgment.... perhaps all the sins and energies of the world are but the world’s flight from an infinite blinding beam” ; and again at an earlier date : “if we cannot imagine ourselves as different from what we are , and try to assume that second self , we cannot impose a discipline upon ourselves though we may accept one from others. active virtue , as distinguished from the passive acceptance of a code , is therefore theatrical , consciously dramatic , the wearing of a mask.... wordsworth , great poet though he be , is so often flat and heavy partly because his moral sense , being a discipline he had not created , a mere obedience , has no theatrical element. this increases his popularity with the better kind of journalists and politicians who have written books.”