" are we ready to go ? "
" from whence shall we expect the approach of danger ? shall some transatlantic giant step the earth and crush us at a blow ? never ! all the armies of europe and asia could not , by force , take a drink from the ohio river or set a track on the blue ridge in the trial of a thousand years. if destruction be our lot , we ourselves must be its author and finisher. as a nation of free men , we will live forever , or die by suicide. "
there'll be no more counting the cars on the garden state parkway
nor waiting for the fung wah bus to carry me to who - knows - where
and when i stand tonight , 'neath the lights of the fenway
will i not yell like hell for the glory of the newark bears ?
because where i'm going to now , no one can ever hurt me
where the well of human hatred is shallow and dry
no , i never wanted to change the world , but i'm looking for a new new jersey
because tramps like us , baby , we were born to die
i'm doing 70 on 17 , 80 over 84
and i never let the meritt parkway magnetize me no more
give me a brutal somerville summer
give me a cruel new england winter
give me the great pine barrens
so i can see them turned into splinters
and if i come in on a donkey , let me go out on a gurney
i want to realize too late i never should have left new jersey
whoa - oh - oh - oh , whoa - oh - oh - oh
la da da da da da da da da da da , yeah !
whoa - oh - oh - oh , whoa - oh - oh - oh
la da da da da da da da da da da , yeah !
i sense the enemy , they're rustling around in the trees
i thought i had gotten away but the followed me to 02143
oh , woe , woe is me , no one knows the trouble i see
when they hang jeff davis from a sourapple tree , i'll sit beneath the leaves and weep
none of us shall be saved , every man will be a slave
for john brown's body lies a - mould'ring in the grave and there's rumbling down in the caves
so if it's time for choosing sides , and to show this dirty city how we do the jersey slide
and if it deserves a better class of criminal
then i'ma give it to them tonight
so we'll rally around the flag , rally around the flag
rally around the flag , boys , rally once again
shouting the battle cry of freedom
rally around the flag , rally around the flag
glory , glory , hallelujah , his truth is marching on
" i will be as harsh as truth and as uncompromising as justice. on this subject , i do not wish to think , or speak , or write with moderation. i am in earnest. i will not equivocate , i will not excuse , i will not retreat a single inch , and i will be heard. "