sometimes you need something to happend to you...
to put things in perspective
now so many people...hate me
and i thought i hated so many people
just a waste of time
life's way to short
yeah
you only live once , so this is my only chance
life's too fucking short , rest in peace nolan chance
i almost died myself , october 12th , 4 a.m. ,
god almost threw a deadly wrench into my pefect plan
and out of nowhere , here comes a helping hand
a good senerity starts hosing off the burning van
45 minutes trapped in that suburan air
when i saw my life flash before my eyes
seems so worthless man
just in time , jaws got me out to circumstance
i'm just a fuck up god , i didn't even earn this chance
but since you gave it to me , i'ma try and chance my ways
looking back all the time i wasted blazin' days away
write a couple lines , i'll finish this verse after soon
tomorrow is a promise not even this afternoon
then morning , but what's so good about it though ?
my life is like a movie but i ain't puttin' on no fucking show
life is a game , we're all trapped in it
forced to play but never winning
you don't wanna waste one minute
holdin grudges , hatred isn't worth it
life's to short
i'm telling you that there's no point in dwelling
and i ain't holding on the past anymore
live everyday like my last because life's to short
i get so many chances , but somehow i alwais fail
seems like i only talk to god when i end up in jail
soon as i get out , my train of thought derails
i'm smokin' weed again , i'm drinkin' , and i hit females
i don't know why i do it , i feel so fuckin' stupid !
and i can't blame it on the way that i grew up influenced
i'm 21 now , it's time to grow the fuck up !
i shoulda listened to all the people i told to shut up !
but i was young and stubborn , little kyle knew it all
told the world to suck my dick and all i did was blue my balls
but who are you to call me a low life , look at you !
i ain't on no straight and arrow but your life is crooked too !
shit there i go again , tryin' to point the blame away
from myself , i need help i know that
but yo , they say admittin' is the first step towards succes
and i'll keep walkin' there , with or without legs
roll up in my wheelchair
life is a game , we're all trapped in it
forced to play but never winning
you don't wanna waste one minute
holdin grudges , hatred isn't worth it
life's to short
i'm telling you that there's no point in dwelling
and i ain't holding on the past anymore
live everyday like my last because life's to short
lot of friends did me wrong , but i don't seek bastards !
'cause they say karma is the hide and seek master
i'm sure it'll find you , just like it found me , thanksgiving
and this is real talk , it ain't rap and it ain't singing
tryin' to teach you something , whether you learn or not
that don't mean nothing to me
i'm just tryin' to earn my spot in heaven
'cause i know how i died in that crash that night !
i would have been in hell for all my afterlife !
lookin' back at life , makes me upset !
i wish i could tell you i look back with no regrets
but yo that ain't the case , for example ?
stole that phone , but i was 18 and they still won't leave me the fuck alone !
but it's whatever though , i'm gettin better bro !
way over my ex's , what bitch you think i can't get a hoe ?
that's when i realize that i actually am alone
this is just a desicion , my emotions that i'll never show
life is a game , we're all trapped in it
forced to play but never winning
you don't wanna waste one minute
holdin grudges , hatred isn't worth it
life's to short
i'm telling you that there's no point in dwelling
and i ain't holding on the past anymore
live everyday like my last because life's to short