i called roc like , “yo , cuz , ” ( i was with a bad bitch )
got some cash on some ho’s head
( you know i’m with a fast flip )
dead or alive , ( buttoned shirt with the bag zipped )
boy , i have roc on your ass like the fast 6
( aye , i tell my shooters “paul walker” )
but that just means crash whips
( everybody get an arm in their face ) , but i won’t dab shit
yo , we brought two twin ninas , ( extendos ) , mad clips
( me and surf drivin' through new york ) , on some fast shit
( he hopped out , ain’t let the whip stop ) , i’m tryna blast shit
( i jump with the ratchet sister like , “yas , bitch ! ” )
we got a problem , houston ; ( whitney )
i bring a bitch with bald heads ; ( britney )
could put it on the house , ( this shit smokin' like a chimney )
entry wound like a dime , ( exit wound like a frisbee )
100 - round drum makes the shootin' shit easy
( big t fingers after lunch ; do ‘em greasy )
before the shot , ( hanes shirt ) , after the shot , ( yeezy )
before the cut , ( shumpert ) , after the cut , ( beasley )
i’ll make a phone call , find out where they all be
( we let gloves cover the arm ; that’s a long sleeve )
four four with the wood handle , i’ll pull a palm tree
( before the shot ) , big t , ( after the shot ) , tall t
pistol whippin' , pull the pistol grippin' from the light side
( he ain’t know how much the heat weighted )
it beat his meat to the white side
( that’s hospital beds , i’m insurin' the tubes )
with mashed potatoes , applesauce , and ensure in the tubes
( i’m comin' to get him myself , i ain’t payin' killers )
it’s gon’ be nurses , stitches , bandages , and painkillers
( you , you , saga , big t , y’all gon’ need backup )
or it’s martin reruns , in the bed with the back up
( it’s gon’ be shells on the ground
he’s faced down with his ass out )
and wake up in the hospital bed in a gown with his ass out
( one phone call , hella v's , they’re surroundin' y’all
bunch of goons , clappin' at the niggas , they’re proud of y’all )
i’ll put a whole ki on his head ; that’s a powder call
pause , ( have a bunch of niggas )
try to hit him like the powerball
these hammers ain’t for construction
how i grip it and bang it ( what else ? )
whole whip gettin' sprayed , it ain’t gettin' repainted
( what else ? ) roll him over on his back
( fuck , that nigga done fainted ? )
boy , you look like a cop , ( i’ll put this pig in a blanket )
hang his daughter over the balcony , i’ll give her the blanket
( eight ounces of sizzy in the baby bottle
i’ll get her to drink it )
that lenscrafter shit was genius
( this new shit spit four blocks )
mk with the binoculars , i got michael kors watch
( that last shit was crazy , shine
i shouldn’t have disrespected your daughter )
i ain’t hear you , what you say to him ? ( that last shit was crazy , i shouldn’t have disrespected his daughter )
nah , fuck that , roc , if i’m open , i’ma kyle korv her
two bodies , two choirs , they’re gon’ need more singers
if i miss with our 26 , i’ll pull that long nick , the porzingis
( fuck we got to put it in gun titles or somethin' ?
that means get her outta here
if i got to hit her with the metal and lake her
they’re gon’ have to fish her outta there
fuck battle rap , you know i really don’t like you , no fakin' )
we’re some bad boys too , we’ll do ‘em like the zoe haitians
( we put in work like we made reservations ) , no waitin'
( show up to your funeral )
to make sure you’re in/urine like probation
( somebody get the box out )
that’s how you get the board on him
( i’ll give him a shit bag , take it , shake it , then pour it on him )
that silver near like a souvenir , i bought it for him
( k was the intended receiver ) , but d back caught it for him
black wheelchair , black dress
we gon’ make sure his mama there
.24 wavin' out , playin' like the mamba there
( but roc ain’t gon’ miss shells , you’ll need obamacare
coroners gon’ have to zip ‘em up
and get ‘em the fuck outta here )
you got to watch what you say around surf ( and roc )
you know them niggas like to tattle talk
( conversatin' about their death
but the shit sound like battle talk
i was on the phone with shine , like )
“hello” , ( “yo , make sure you bring that toranio for tay” )
“you need a lux and charron friend ? ”
( “yeah , make sure you bring that nigel for surf” )
“so if they darrel us , bring that jones in”
( “yeah , i got my akeem from philly
you know that murder rate is high” )
“cool , i got my mac event , it’s a perfect day to die”
( nah , i know , i know , it sound like silly shit
but that’s a code for gun titles )
let me tell you what that really meant
( that mean grab the ratchet , shine , toranio )
that’s a calico to push roc like summer madness 5
that lux and charron friend ? ( that means it’s loaded
with a hundred bullets when the heat clappin'
what’s nigel ? ) that’s a hollow , ( so if they try to derail us )
he gettin' that arsenal like they’re rematchin'
what’s that akeem ‘bout ? ( that’s a tec - 9 from philly )
you know what that means , ( that it means you ain’t never lie
that’s the main event from perfect day to die ? )
that mean he turn his back on shotgun
and die from clips the second time
you not liable , today i got somethin' swifter , the mop risin'
( man , lift the fifth up
you’re fuckin' your wrist up ) , it’s lopsided
( fuck surf , you need to worry
about the nigga that’s dot mobbin'
fuck what the beef amountin' to )
i’m shootin' wherever roc climbin'
( jersey talk , say that , we’re lockin' them down )
you know the homie don’t play that , ( we’re sockin' a clown )
let’s get it started , this department stores a lot in the cal
( you should’ve known he was a target
when he put this dot in his round )
but look , i ain’t got a round to lose
( well , i got a round to use ; i’m feelin' like gwitty )
get hype , man , ( and get the loudest uz’
what else ? ) their death gon’ be on that counter too
( shine , what else ? ) if he swing , then i’ma counter too
what if surf jump in ? ( well , i’ma counter tsu
‘cause my death ain’t gonna be on the account of tsu
what if he peel off ? ) get drug over the counter , tsu
( the doctors will be tryna get money back
like they countersued )
aye , big t , i’m ‘bout to hurt tsu
( but it hurts to ) know that we’re not the first to
( ever since joe buddens put you in the verse , tsu )
you think you’re universal
( but you ain’t signed to def jam ) , interscope , or ( universal )
if i don’t get my pursuits , tsu , ( then we pursue )
anybody i got to murk too , ( let’s throw it in reversal )
i’ll give my little homie a capsule , he’ll lose his capsule
( then he’ll cap tsu ) , i’m just goin' off the cap , tsu
( so it’s your own problem if you touch his cap , tsu
charron , problem , cap , tsu )
i got to ask you , how you attack move ?
but you’re with roc today ? ( stop it , k
now , we all know that the dots will say )
“it’s not the same , ” ( he’ll get shot from a block away )
tell that west coast nigga not to play
( this the bitch who tay digs ? )
you ain’t even the best , man , hol’ at day
( what we got , the gas all - stars ? ) let’s take a chance
( snitch nigga , you’ll take the stand
the whole crowd screamin' y’all should kill jersey )
and i’ma lake his fan
arms lock , ( with a firm grim ) , i ain’t shakin' hands
( let a shot loose ) , hit roc group , ( i’m tryna make a band
this nigga been bringin' smack down ) , spray the can
( go against the pops )
you’re gettin' the business next ; shane mcmahon
( and i plan to ) make it land , ( the handle ) , beige his tan
( it’s brand new ) , and let it can tsu like a change of plans
( gun titles , y’all gon’ need three biscuits )
a llama , a .40 , a tec , ( machines lifted )
with heat vision , ( heavy rounds , deep dishes
with a gun so big the nigga hitman ) can’t remix it
( i’m talkin' that chilaka boom , boom , boom ) , that t spittin'
( i’m talkin' about it’s in the car ) , like reed visit
( then revisit with a 9 , a blicky , a 9 , a desi )
have his team missin' , ( the types of swammies we got
to make the nigga surf ) reach different
( it’s round one , it’s gettin' hot in here
what’s your slogan ? ) zip ‘em up !
( what’s mine ? ) get ‘em the fuck outta here !
( hell no , you reach , get urn and ash the fuck outta here !
my tank is full , get that gas the fuck outta here !
get anybody that’s been on their dick
from the jump the fuck outta here !
and get any 2 - on - 2 that’s not us the fuck outta here ! )
( everybody want to roll ) , but niggas be fearin' the ride
( you’re gettin' knocked out
then wake up , gettin' buried alive )
i’m more official with the four , ( but i carry the five
and i’ll put it on your kids like i’m swearin' to god )
somebody gettin' bent all out of shape
when i’m poppin' mine
.40 cal ate his side ; that’s an octagon
( surf , that was mean , let me try angles
circle his block , lookin' for squares when i’m grippin' mine
boy , when i bang shit
look like a plane hit ; that’s the pentagon )
i let a few bang you , ( dear god , i’ll send you a few angels )
just how i like ‘em , layin' in an ugly box in a cute angle
i got the drop on a nigga , heard the safe in a home
i pull up , i’ll bill cosby , then i’m takin' him home
( hold up , surf , that’s a reach , how you gon’ bill on a nigga ? )
that ain’t no reach , roc , that mean i’ma peel on a nigga
( aye , dna want to know how we got cool
surf , should we tell him ? ) of course
( i was fuckin' with your moms ) , and i was fuckin' with yours
dna couldn’t come outside ‘til he was done with his chores
( and shine put makeup around his mouth to cover the sores
my jacket , full of purple hearts , covered with wars )
your what ? ( my jacket
full of purple hearts , covered with wars )
i’ll andre drummond the house , nothin' but boards
( they’ll find his mother in the woods ) , back trunk of a ford
i crept up behind her , the choice of weapon , a cord
( put the maximum on his head
the homies will do it for nothin' probably )
shit , for that fee , i’ll do it , and pile her on the other bodies
( what you say ? ) impala on the other bodies
( son not a g , he a soft liar )
he said , son not a g , he a soft liar
dna better jet or get caught up in the crossfire
( aye , smack , give us one of them wild mid - tier niggas )
that would be more threats
( y’all more like mid - tier , top - tier niggas ) , y’all are cor vets
( nah , but scratch that , real shit
and for you new niggas playin' games )
i ain’t with the fuckin' jokes ( what ? )
nitty’ll get buried with the work
that’s how you mix rum and coke
( son wait , that was dumb straight
but back shots , bullets steam out his chest
the block’s smellin' like rum cake )
no joke when i’m raisin' the chrome
i’ll let two pick in his mouth , *tch , tch* – razor ramon
( breakin' your bones , you don’t want to see this heater bang
boy , this british bulldog got me walkin' like i need a cane )
sound like austin walkin' when i blam mine
no gloves , fuck it , i’ll use a sock for this man kind
( sting mask , i can go hannibal and stalk him
or legion of doom , i can be animal and hawk him )
dna , i don’t respect you , you be bitchin' with these ladders
matt and jeff hardy ; we be flippin' with these ladders
( i never missed a perfect shot , i get it done
i brought my undertaker
and my road dog brought his badass billy gun )
say swear to god you ain’t a faggot
( well , that’s that they told us )
if we cremated this bitch , his ashes'd be gold dust
hey roc ? ( uh - huh ? ) hey roc ? ( what ? )
hey roc ? ( yeah ? ) hey roc ? ( what ? )
hey roc , let these niggas know , ( we can do a pick and roll )
bam , bam , ( give and go ) , don’t matter if it’s big or low
( fuck , we got to put it in gun titles or somethin' ? )
i hate that i got to explain a lot ( why ? )
‘cause that big bald head will flame his top
( these niggas is hard of hearin'
d , you and k ) shouldn’t be thinkin' y’all can dunk
( this sk for you and k ) , they’ll be stinkin' like a skunk
( thinkin' that y’all can fuck with us ) , d , are you and k drunk ?
( two caskets stacked on top of each other )
will be you and k , bunk ?
( y’all seen them livin' through this ? i had another vision )
news report of dead on the television
( i hit him with the back of the shotty
he seein' double vision )
free el chapo , i’ll get that scope , i get tunnel vision
( nah , fuck that , surf , i ain’t done yet
i’m spaceman with the shot , they’ll gon’ park in the sunset
jersey )
her little cousin , nah , dna asked me a question
but i was lookin' a different direction
( ayo , k - shine , yo , i need you to pay attention )
déjà vu , wait , wait , give me a second
‘cause it’s a different post above the window
( but i vividly read it )
and it said that , ( anybody with a criminal record )
that get charged with possession
( in new jersey state law ) , gets a five - year minimum
( in bold letters ) , no exceptions
( message ) , you got away with the first gun charge
how you pull off the second ?
yo , you really think this nigga tellin' ?
( i mean , honestly , he got to be : they don’t got that many get out of jail free cards in monopoly )
aye , roc , wasn’t you on this property ?
( he damn sure was , wasn’t he zip ‘em up first ? )
yeah , then he went to the dots ?
( then he went to the dots , homie
damn , before that , wasn’t he cave gang ? )
i guess now he got to be gun titles ‘cause he got to be
( so you’re a zip , a cave , gun title dot… )