1. say you will
( k. west , d. mills , j. bhasker , j. jenkins )
produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978. recorded by andrew dawson and anthony kilhoffer at glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording studio , honolulu , hi. assistants at glenwood studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine. assistants at avex
recording studio : christian mochizuki and gaylord homomalia. mixed by manny marroquin at larrabee studios north , los angeles , ca. assisted by christian plata and erik
madrid. keyboards : jeff bhasker. strings arranged and conducted by larry gold. engineer : jeff chestek. assistant engineers : montez roberts , rick friedrich , john stahl
violins : emma kummrow , igor szwec , luigi mazzochi , gregory teperman , olga konopelsky , charles parker. viola : davis barnett , alexandra leem. cello : james j. cooper , iii
jennie lorenzo. bass : miles davis. vocals : the kadockadee kwire featuring glenn jordan , phillip ingram , jim gilstrap , romeo johnson , kevin dorsey ( courtesy of the bassmint
entertainment group ) and will wheaton ( courtesy of platinum bass records ) . background vocals : mr. hudson and tony williams. © 2008 please gimme my publishing inc.|emi
blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) /get ya frog on publishing ( bmi ) /above the line ( bmi ) /young jeezy music ( bmi )
2. welcome to heartbreak
( k. west , j. bhasker , p. reynolds , s. mescudi )
produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978
co - produced by jeff bhasker and plain pat
recorded by andrew dawson and anthony kilhoffer at glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording studio , honolulu , hi and by ryan west at chung king studios , nyc
assistants at glenwood studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine
assistants at avex recording studio : christian mochizuki and gaylord homomalia
mixed by manny marroquin at larrabee studios north , los angeles , ca
assisted by christian plata and erik madrid
keyboards : jeff bhasker
piano : ken lewis
strings arranged and conducted by larry gold
engineer : jeff chestek
assistant engineers : montez roberts , rick friedrich , john stahl
violins : emma kummrow , igor szwec , luigi mazzochi , gregory teperman , olga konopelsky , charles parker
viola : davis barnett , alexandra leem
cello : james j. cooper , iii , jennie lorenzo
bass : miles davis
background vocals : jeff bhasker
© 2008 please gimme my publishing inc./emi blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) /above the line ( bmi ) /copyright control/elsie’s baby boy publishing ( ascap )
3. heartless
( k. west , e. wilson , s. mescudi , m. jones ) produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978. co - produced
by no i.d. recorded by andrew dawson and anthony kilhoffer at glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording studio , honolulu , hi. | assistants at glenwood
studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine. assistants at avex recording studio : christian mochizuki and gaylord homomalia. mixed by manny marroquin at larrabee studios north
los angeles , ca. assisted by christian plata and erik madrid. keyboards : jeff bhasker. piano : ken lewis. © 2008 please gimme my publishing inc.|emi blackwood music inc
( bmi ) /invisible music|chrysalis publishing ( bmi ) /elsie’s baby boy publishing ( ascap ) /jabriel iz myne ( ascap )
4. amazing ( feat. young jeezy )
( k. west , m. jones , d. mills , j. bhasker , j. jenkins )
produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978. co - produced by jeff bhasker. recorded by andrew dawson and anthony kilhoffer at glenwood studios
burbank , ca and avex recording studio , honolulu , hi. assistants at glenwood studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine. assistants at avex recording studio : christian
mochizuki and gaylord homomalia. mixed by manny marroquin at larrabee studios north , los angeles , ca. assisted by christian plata and erik madrid. keyboards : jeff
bhasker. background vocals : mr. hudson and tony williams. © 2008 please gimme my publishing inc.|emi blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) /jabriel iz myne ( ascap ) /get ya frog on
publishing ( bmi ) /above the line ( bmi ) /young jeezy music ( bmi )
5. love lockdown
( k. west , j. bhasker , j. englishman , m. jones , l. menzies )
produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978. co - produced by jeff bhasker. recorded and mixed by andrew dawson at
glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording studio , honolulu , hi. keyboards : jeff bhasker. drums/percussions : gibi , zé bruno , lula almeida and rodney dassis. ©
2008 please gimme my publishing inc.|emi blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) /above the line ( bmi ) /emi april music inc.|emi april music canada ltd.|stinky minky music ( socan ) all
rights for stinky minky music controlled and administered by emi april music inc. ( ascap ) /jabriel iz myne ( ascap ) /copyright control
6. paranoid ( feat. mr hudson )
( k. west , p. reynolds , s. mescudi , d. mills , j. bhasker ) produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978. co - produced by jeff
bhasker and plain pat. recorded by andrew dawson and anthony kilhoffer at glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording studio , honolulu , hi. assistants at glenwood
studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine | assistants at avex recording studio : christian mochizuki and gaylord homomalia. mixed by manny marroquin at larrabee studios
north , los angeles , ca. assisted by christian plata and erik madrid. keyboards : jeff bhasker. background vocals : kid cudi. © 2008 please gimme my publishing inc.|emi
blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) /copyright control/elsie’s baby boy publishing ( ascap ) /get ya frog on publishing ( bmi ) /above the line ( bmi )
7. robocop
( k. west , j. englishman , m. jones , d. mills , s. mescudi
a. williams , j. bhasker , f. najm , j. jenkins , p. doyle ) produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978. recorded by andrew dawson and anthony kilhoffer at
glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording studio , honolulu , hi. assistants at glenwood studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine. assistants at avex recording studio :
christian mochizuki and gaylord homomalia. mixed by manny marroquin at larrabee studios north , los angeles , ca. assisted by christian plata and erik madrid. keyboards :
jeff bhasker. strings arranged and conducted by larry gold. engineer : jeff chestek. assistant engineers : montez roberts , rick friedrich , john stahl. violins : emma
kummrow , igor szwec , luigi mazzochi , gregory teperman , olga konopelsky , charles parker. viola : davis barnett , alexandra leem. cello : james j. cooper , iii , jennie lorenzo
bass : miles davis. orchestra in chorus created and performed by ken lewis. engineered by ken lewis and brent kolatalo. background vocals : tony williams and jeff bhasker
© 2008 please gimme my publishing inc.|emi blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) /emi april music canada ltd.|stinky minky music ( socan ) . all rights for stinky minky music controlled
and administered by emi april music inc. ( ascap ) /jabriel iz myne ( ascap ) /get ya frog on publishing ( bmi ) /elsie’s baby boy publishing ( ascap ) /penafire music ( bmi ) /above the
line ( bmi ) /nappypub music|universal music - z songs ( bmi ) /young jeezy music ( bmi ) /tcf music publishing inc. ( ascap ) this composition embodies portions of “kissing in the rain , ”
written by p. doyle , published by tcf music publishing inc. ( ascap )
8. street lights
( k. west , j. englishman , a. williams , b. mcildowie ) produced by kanye west for very
good beats/hip hop since 1978. co - produced by mr. hudson. recorded by andrew dawson and anthony kilhoffer at glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording
studio , honolulu , hi. assistants at glenwood studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine. assistants at avex recording studio : christian mochizuki and gaylord homomalia. mixed by
manny marroquin at larrabee studios north , los angeles , ca. assisted by christian plata and erik madrid. keyboards : jeff bhasker. background vocals : esthero and tony
williams. © 2008 please gimme my publishing inc.|emi blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) / emi april music inc.|emi april music canada ltd.|stinky minky music ( socan ) all rights for
stinky minky music controlled and administered by emi april music inc. ( ascap ) /penafire music ( bmi ) /copyright control
9. bad news
( k. west , g. bass ) produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978. recorded by andrew
dawson and anthony kilhoffer at glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording studio , honolulu , hi. assistants at glenwood studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine
assistants at avex recording studio : christian mochizuki and gaylord homomalia. mixed by manny marroquin at larrabee studios north , los angeles , ca. assisted by christian
plata and erik madrid. keyboards : jeff bhasker. strings arranged and conducted by larry gold. engineer : jeff chestek. assistant engineers : montez roberts , rick friedrich
john stahl. violins : emma kummrow , igor szwec , luigi mazzochi , gregory teperman , olga konopelsky , charles parker. viola : davis barnett , alexandra leem. cello : james j
cooper , iii , jennie lorenzo. bass : miles davis. contains a sample of the recording “see line woman” as performed by nina simone. under license from universal music
enterprises. used by permission. all rights reserved. written by george bass , published by wb music corp. ( ascap ) . all rights reserved. © 2008 please gimme my
publishing inc.|emi blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) /wb music corp. ( ascap )
10. see you in my nightmares ( feat. lil wayne )
( k. west , e. wilson , j. bhasker , d. carter )
produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978. co - produced by no i.d
recorded by andrew dawson and anthony kilhoffer at glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording
studio , honolulu , hi
assistants at glenwood studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine. assistants at avex recording studio : christian mochizuki and gaylord homomalia
mixed by manny marroquin at larrabee studios north , los angeles , ca. assisted by christian plata and erik madrid. keyboards : jeff bhasker. strings arranged and conducted by larry gold. engineer : jeff
chestek. assistant engineers : montez roberts , rick friedrich , john stahl. violins : emma kummrow , igor szwec , luigi mazzochi , gregory teperman , olga konopelsky , charles parker. viola : davis
barnett , alexandra leem. cello : james j. cooper , iii , jennie lorenzo. bass : miles davis. lil wayne appears courtesy of cash money/universal motown records. © 2008 please gimme my
publishing inc.| emi blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) /invisible music chrysalis publishing ( bmi ) /above the line ( bmi ) /young money publishing inc. , warner chappell music ( bmi )
11. coldest winter
( k. west , e. wilson , r. orzabal )
produced by kanye west for very good beats/hip hop since 1978. co - produced by no i.d. and jeff bhasker
recorded by andrew dawson and anthony kilhoffer at glenwood studios , burbank , ca and avex recording studio , honolulu , hi
assistants at glenwood studios : chad carlisle and isha erskine
assistants at avex recording studio : christian mochizuki and gaylord homomalia
mixed by manny marroquin at larrabee studios north , los
angeles , ca
assisted by christian plata and erik madrid
keyboards : jeff bhasker
this composition embodies an interpolation of “memories fade , ” written by roland orzabal and published by chrysalis songs ( bmi ) . © 2008 please gimme my publishing inc. , emi blackwood music inc. ( bmi ) /invisible music , chrysalis publishing ( bmi ) /chrysalis songs ( bmi )
hidden track : " pinocchio story ( freestyle live from singapore ) "
written by : kanye west
~ executive credits ~
executive producers : the carter administration , kanye west
gee roberson and kyambo “hip hop” joshua
a&r direction : patrick “plain pat” reynolds
a&r administration : terese joseph
mastered by vlado meller at universal music studios east , nyc
marketing : al branch for hip hop since 1978
and don c. for hustle
marketing for def jam : chris atlas
management : hip hop since 1978 and hustle
legal counsel : alison k. finley
art direction by past tell museum
photography by willy vanderperre
photograph of kanye and donda west by danny clinch
package design : jp robinson
artwork by kaws
art & photography coordination : kristen yiengst
package production : carol corless
business affairs : randy mcmillan
antoinette trotman , ian allen
sample clearances : eric weissman music
licensing , inc
www.kanyewest.com
www.rocafella.com
www.idjmobile.com
roc - a - fella records since1996
hip hop since 1978
the heavy hitters hustle
2008 roc - a - fella records , llc
manufactured and marketed by
the island def jam music group
825 eighth avenue , ny , ny 10019
distributed by universal music distribution
all rights reserved
0 - 06025 - 1791919 - 8