don't mind me baby , heh
we takin over summer
young gettin it , haha
let's take it home , champ
shawty got a big ole butt , oh yeeeeeeah
shawty got a big ole butt , oh yeeeeeeah
wooooooo , uh
clappers to the front , front , front , front
clappers to the front , front , front , front
shawty got a big ol' butt
oh yeah ! ! !
ay wale ! wooooooo
bounce , bounce , bounce , fool , i put the city on
bounce , bounce , bounce , fool , then i put my niggas on
bounce , bounce , bounce , fool , i ain't gotta say too much
it's fan participation keeping rainy in the stadium
ooooh , rap fool , see that from a block away
i ain't pessimistic but i dropped a couple not today
bet she call you not today
i told 'em all my lot is out
i know the dame like skylar team
i wonder if she shot up
i just know her favorite song is " started from the bottom "
and i ain't hating mama , fact i wanna take your number
said you save yo bread from magic something happened then went viola
clappers to the front , front , front , front
clappers to the front , front , front , front
shawty got a big ol' butt
oh yeah ! ! !
shawty come shake that ass for me
let a trippy nigga see what you working with
can you clap that ass , do a handstand , girl
make your booty wiggle , do a perfect split
she got the fattest ass , she got the perfect tits
i wanna get some head , come on work your lips
i'm high in the clouds i'm not coming down
i'm so turned up i can't find the ground ( sippy )
sippin' syrup by the gallon , smokin' kush by the pound
make it flood with the ones , broke bitch might drown
juicy got chips like frito - lay
and im fucking these chicks out of d.o.a
i'm so dopeboy fresh that you think that i'm selling blow
take your chick to vip and get her pregnant in her throat
shawty bust it open for me , i might throw this cash
shawty throw that ass like a hail mary pass
i'm fucking me a new chick every night
make that ass clap , i don't care about that cellulite
clappers to the front , front , front , front
clappers to the front , front , front , front
shawty got a big ol' butt
oh yeah ! ! !
clappers to the front , got a backwood full of skunk
got a white boy with the funnel gentrifying , that's whats up !
look , clappers to the front , all you niggas got the skumps
now she finna bust it loose , screaming rest in peace to chuck
it's that dmv , we up at kod
and i can cc you these cc's
but don't be oc
shout out to that cellulite
got a real bad bitch that will sell you white
got another bad bitch that will sex you right
got a couple hoodrats on section 8
make a nigga cum , don’t procrastinate
ass on 5 - 0 come crack the case
got ass for days , come activate
this ass on fire , evacuate
throw that ass in the air , evaporate
where your money ? let a bitch evaluate
if you 'bout big money , elaborate
i'mma shake this ass ‘till i graduate , nigga
clappers to the front , front , front , front
clappers to the front , front , front , front
shawty got a big ol' butt
oh yeah ! ! !
uh , bounce , bounce bounce bounce bounce bounce bounce
yeah , yeah , uh , bounce bounce , look , look
sayin rest in peace to chuck , uh , yeah
sayin rest in peace to chuck , yeah uh - huh
sayin rest in peace to chuck , yeah , yeah
and in that city i'm the one , let's go , scotty
e. sreet , d. sreet , rosedale , sursum corda , paradise , carver terrace , 1 - 5 , parkland , garfield , palmer park , 2 - 5 , kentland , benning park , simple city
simple city...