seinfield : getting engaged is like getting , uh , it's the first hill of the roller coaster
and you hear those clickers , the loud sound - this really violent , metal
'chunka - chunka - chunka' and you go , " what , what's going on here , " you know ?
" boy this thing is really , really goes high ! "
wale : i'm looking down , 'oh shit ! '
seinfield : and then you go over the top , the wedding is at the top. you go over the top , is the wedding and then you're just screaming
wale : even if you make plans you never think you're really ready for marriage ?
seinfield : no it's uh , it's like any growth. you're no - you can't be ready for it because tha - it's growth , it's gonna be new. it's gonna be new. you're gonna have a new life , you're gonna be a new person
couldn't make you wait forever , for forever
this is forever
i gotchu
if there's a question of my heart , you've got it
it don't belong to anyone but you
if there's a question of my love , you've got it
baby , don't worry , i've got plans for you
baby , i've been making plans , oh love
baby , i've been making plans for you
baby , i've been making plans
baby , i've been making plans for you
( my sincerest apologies , i mean it )
look , i'll admit it , albeit pathetic
that i'm in my late 20s , still never been to a wedding
guess the idea of that lobby empty do not sit with me well
it’s not your fault they try get me cause i'mma need the sales
cause i'm selfish , and i need you to myself
tryna see you afloat , but don't wanna see you excel
cause i failed and see you 'bout to cry
cause when i enter they city they leave without they pride
i'm sorry , and you starin' at my comments
fearin' it's gone always be you sharin' me with all them
wrong , how dare i say ignore them ?
preparing for that day i leave you here and switch you for them
it's hard , you know temptation and all
bitches out here tryna see if my relationship's strong
get a place in the charts or runaway from your heart
gave this music my all , nothing is sacred no more - i'm wrong
but i'm promisin' you better though
and your friends sayin' , " let him go "
and we ain't gettin' any younger
i can give up now , but i can promise you forever though
if there's a question of my heart , you've got it
it don't belong to anyone but you
if there's a question of my love , you've got it
baby , don't worry , i've got plans for you
baby , i've been making plans , oh love
baby , i've been making plans for you
baby , i've been making plans
baby , i've been making plans for you
( realest shit i ever wrote , realest shit i ever wrote
realest shit i ever wrote , if you ever knew love )
i’ll admit it , let me be hypothetic
the day i find a woman i prolly be scared to share it
the idea of me finding love , would run somebody off
and true my wall could use some plaques , but still i gotta floss
brush you off , see i'm kinda lost
now i'm up in the club with a couple of move ons
and dark , good nigga , troubled heart
went from fallin' in love to drunk and fallin' apart
this is hard , tryna find some time to move on
cause when we lost our baby , i got shady , shit got too dark
soft , and i thank you baby , you strong
my ex before you married too , you solo , i say so long
nah , good terms how that ended
but it surely put a dent on how i worry about this business
off white picket fences , on flights with the children
on site stealin' kisses on off nights my intentions but
but i plan to do it better though
but you still sayin' let it go
we ain't gettin' any younger
women love me now but in your eyes we forever though
if there's a question of my heart , you've got it
it don't belong to anyone but you
if there's a question of my love , you've got it
baby , don't worry , i've got plans for you
baby , i've been making plans , oh baby
i've been making plans , oh love
baby , i've been making plans for you
baby , i've been making plans
baby , i've been making plans for you
we ain't nothin' but some planets
seinfield : i always feel like i’m a planet. and these other women that are , kinda moving through this solar system with me. and , marriage is like you decide to jump off of your planet , across to another planet. and you can only do it when one planet passes real close. and you look and you go , “hey , i think i can jump across.”