( feat. eddie jones )
syeah ! mike jones ! who ? mike jones !
five years from nowwwwwww
five years from nowwwwwww
where would i go , who would i see in - five years from nowwwwwww
tell me how will i live , will i raise some kids yeah - five years from nowwwwwww
will i be locked down or will i be underground yeah - five years from nowwwwwww
tell me what my future hold , it scares me not to know
what i'ma be doin - five years from nowwwwwww
i live life daily , scared to make babies
it's hard to plan your future when the world goin crazy
kids with no food , but can they turn 2
beside they own people , i swear this world evil
they see us on tv , they thinkin we should be
the main ones providin for our community
but the government is paid , dishin out minimum wage
they don't care about the streets , as long as they get paid
my advice is please vote , don't take it as a joke
cause five years from now the world could be gone in smoke
now everybody's gone , cause they ain't stand strong
and vote for a leader that can lead our country home
we got people in iraq , tell me why they cain't come home
if you care about your future please listen to the song
we got people in iraq , tell me why they can't come home
if you care about your future please listen to the song
i think about my homies , i think about my momma
i think about what's goin on i think about the drama
i think about the world , i think about my life
five years from now , will i have me a wife ?
will i have me some kids , tell me how will i live
will i be doin wrong or will i live positive
will i live to get a grammy or will i be with my granny
five years from now , i don't think you understand me
i'm tryin to hold on , tryin to stay strong
it's hard not knowin what's really goin on
but i try to maintain , keep my head in the game
when shit ain't lookin too good , i pray for better thangs
i keep the lord on my side , 'til the day i die
will i blow up big ? i don't know but i'll try
i keep the lord on my side , 'til the day i die
will i blow up big ? i don't know but i'll try
how could you think about the future when the world goin crazy
kids havin kids , they too young to make babies
i'm livin in the world so sheisty and shady...mikejones , jones
five years from now will i be dead , boxed up
or in the pen for ten like a con , locked up
tell me how would i live , will i have me some kids ?
will i blow up big in showbiz , five years from now
where would i go.. where would i stay..
five years from now
it scares me not to know , it scares me not to knowwww - yeah