the president : thank you. ( applause. ) good evening , everybody. good evening. i could not be more thrilled to be here tonight - - ( laughter ) - - at the white house correspondents’ dinner. this is great crowd. they’re already laughing. it’s terrific
chuck todd - - love you , brother. ( laughter. ) i’m delighted to see some of the cast members of glee are here. ( laughter. ) and jimmy kimmel , it’s an honor , man. ( laughter. ) what’s so funny ?
my fellow americans , we gather during a historic anniversary. last year at this time - - in fact , on this very weekend - - we finally delivered justice to one of the world’s most notorious individuals. now , this year , we gather in the midst of a heated election season. and axelrod tells me i should never miss a chance to reintroduce myself to the american people. so tonight , this is how i’d like to begin : my name is barack obama. my mother was born in kansas. my father was born in kenya. and i was born , of course , in hawaii. ( obama winks , followed by laughter and applause. )
in 2009 , i took office in the face of some enormous challenges. now , some have said i blame too many problems on my predecessor , but let’s not forget that’s a practice that was initiated by george w. bush. ( laughter. ) since then , congress and i have certainly had our differences ; yet , i’ve tried to be civil , to not take any cheap shots. and that’s why i want to especially thank all the members who took a break from their exhausting schedule of not passing any laws to be here tonight. ( laughter. ) let’s give them a big round of applause. ( applause. )
despite many obstacles , much has changed during my time in office. four years ago , i was locked in a brutal primary battle with hillary clinton. four years later , she won’t stop drunk - texting me from cartagena. ( laughter. )
four years ago , i was a washington outsider. four years later , i’m at this dinner. four years ago , i looked like this. today , i look like this. ( laughter. ) and four years from now , i will look like this. ( laughter and applause. ) that’s not even funny. ( laughter. )
anyway , it’s great to be here this evening in the vast , magnificent hilton ballroom - - or what mitt romney would call a little fixer - upper. ( laughter and applause. ) i mean , look at this party. we’ve got men in tuxes , women in gowns , fine wine , first - class entertainment. i was just relieved to learn this was not a gsa conference. ( laughter. ) unbelievable. not even the mind reader knew what they were thinking. ( laughter. )
of course , the white house correspondents’ dinner is known as the prom of washington d.c. - - a term coined by political reporters who clearly never had the chance to go to an actual prom. ( laughter. )
our chaperone for the evening is jimmy kimmel - - ( applause ) - - who is perfect for the job since most of tonight’s audience is in his key demographic - - people who fall asleep during nightline. ( laughter. ) jimmy got his start years ago on the man show. in washington , that’s what we call a congressional hearing on contraception. ( laughter and applause. )
and plenty of journalists are here tonight. i'd be remiss if i didn’t congratulate the huffington post on their pulitzer prize. ( applause. ) you deserve it , arianna. there's no one else out there linking to the kinds of hard - hitting journalism that huffpo is linking to every single day. ( laughter and applause. ) give them a round of applause. and you don’t pay them - - it's a great business model. ( laughter. )
even sarah palin is getting back into the game , guest hosting on the today show - - which reminds me of an old saying : what's the difference between a hockey mom and a pit bull ? a pit bull is delicious. ( laughter and applause. ) a little soy sauce. ( laughter. )
now , i know at this point many of you are expecting me to go after my likely opponent , newt gingrich. ( laughter. ) newt , there's still time , man. ( laughter. ) but i'm not going to do that - - i'm not going to attack any of the republican candidates. take mitt romney - - he and i actually have a lot in common. we both think of our wives as our better halves , and polls show , to a alarmingly insulting extent , the american people agree. ( laughter. ) we also both have degrees from harvard ; i have one , he has two. what a snob. ( laughter and applause. )
of course , we've also had our differences. recently , his campaign criticized me for slow jamming the news with jimmy fallon. in fact , i understand governor romney was so incensed he asked his staff if he could get some equal time on the merv griffin show. ( laughter. ) still , i guess governor romney is feeling pretty good about things because he took a few hours off the other day to see the hunger games - - some of you have seen it. it's a movie about people who court wealthy sponsors and then brutally savage each other until only one contestant is left standing. i'm sure this was a really good change of pace for him. ( laughter. ) i have not seen the hunger games ; not enough class warfare for me. ( laughter. )
of course , i know everybody is predicting a nasty election , and thankfully , we've all agreed that families are off limits. dogs , however , are apparently fair game. ( laughter. ) and while both campaigns have had some fun with this , the other day i saw a new ad from one of these outside groups that , frankly , i think crossed the line. i know governor romney says he has no control over what his super pacs do , but can we show the ad real quick ? ( video is played. ) ( applause. )
that’s pretty rough - - ( laughter ) - - but i can take it , because my stepfather always told me , it's a boy - eat - dog world out there. ( laughter. )
now , if i do win a second term as president , let me just say something to all the - - ( applause ) - - let me just say something to all my conspiracy - oriented friends on the right who think i'm planning to unleash some secret agenda : you're absolutely right. ( laughter. ) so allow me to close with a quick preview of the secret agenda you can expect in a second obama administration
in my first term , i sang al green ; in my second term , i'm going with young jeezy. ( laughter. )
mrs. obama : yeah
the president : michelle said , yeah. ( laughter. ) i sing that to her sometimes. ( laughter. )
in my first term , we ended the war in iraq ; in my second term , i will win the war on christmas. ( laughter. ) in my first term , we repealed the policy known as " don't ask , don't tell " - - ( applause ) - - wait , though ; in my second term , we will replace it with a policy known as , it's raining men. ( laughter. ) in my first term , we passed health care reform ; in my second term , i guess i'll pass it again. ( applause. )
i do want to end tonight on a slightly more serious note - - whoever takes the oath of office next january will face some great challenges , but he will also inherit traditions that make us greater than the challenges we face. and one of those traditions is represented here tonight : a free press that isn't afraid to ask questions , to examine and to criticize. and in service of that mission , all of you make sacrifices
tonight , we remember journalists such as anthony shadid and marie colvin - - ( applause ) - - who made the ultimate sacrifice as they sought to shine a light on some of the most important stories of our time. so whether you are a blogger or a broadcaster , whether you take on powerful interests here at home or put yourself in harm's way overseas , i have the greatest respect and admiration for what you do. i know sometimes you like to give me a hard time - - and i certainly like to return the favor - - ( laughter ) - - but i never forget that our country depends on you. you help protect our freedom , our democracy , and our way of life
and just to set the record straight , i really do enjoy attending these dinners. in fact , i had a lot more material prepared , but i have to get the secret service home in time for their new curfew. ( laughter. )
thank you very much , everybody. thank you. ( applause. )