1 chronicles 29 : 1 : furthermore david the king said unto all the congregation , solomon my son , whom alone god hath chosen , is yet young and tender , and the work is great : for the palace is not for man , but for the lord god.
1 chronicles 29 : 2 : now i have prepared with all my might for the house of my god the gold for things to be made of gold , and the silver for things of silver , and the brass for things of brass , the iron for things of iron , and wood for things of wood ; onyx stones , and stones to be set , glistering stones , and of divers colours , and all manner of precious stones , and marble stones in abundance.
1 chronicles 29 : 3 : moreover , because i have set my affection to the house of my god , i have of mine own proper good , of gold and silver , which i have given to the house of my god , over and above all that i have prepared for the holy house ,
1 chronicles 29 : 4 : even three thousand talents of gold , of the gold of ophir , and seven thousand talents of refined silver , to overlay the walls of the houses withal :
1 chronicles 29 : 5 : the gold for things of gold , and the silver for things of silver , and for all manner of work to be made by the hands of artificers. and who then is willing to consecrate his service this day unto the lord ?
1 chronicles 29 : 6 : then the chief of the fathers and princes of the tribes of israel , and the captains of thousands and of hundreds , with the rulers of the king's work , offered willingly ,
1 chronicles 29 : 7 : and gave for the service of the house of god of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand drams , and of silver ten thousand talents , and of brass eighteen thousand talents , and one hundred thousand talents of iron.
1 chronicles 29 : 8 : and they with whom precious stones were found gave them to the treasure of the house of the lord , by the hand of jehiel the gershonite.
1 chronicles 29 : 9 : then the people rejoiced , for that they offered willingly , because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the lord : and david the king also rejoiced with great joy.
1 chronicles 29 : 10 : wherefore david blessed the lord before all the congregation : and david said , blessed be thou , lord god of israel our father , for ever and ever.
1 chronicles 29 : 11 : thine , o lord , is the greatness , and the power , and the glory , and the victory , and the majesty : for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine ; thine is the kingdom , o lord , and thou art exalted as head above all.
1 chronicles 29 : 12 : both riches and honour come of thee , and thou reignest over all ; and in thine hand is power and might ; and in thine hand it is to make great , and to give strength unto all.
1 chronicles 29 : 13 : now therefore , our god , we thank thee , and praise thy glorious name.
1 chronicles 29 : 14 : but who am i , and what is my people , that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort ? for all things come of thee , and of thine own have we given thee.
1 chronicles 29 : 15 : for we are strangers before thee , and sojourners , as were all our fathers : our days on the earth are as a shadow , and there is none abiding.
1 chronicles 29 : 16 : o lord our god , all this store that we have prepared to build thee an house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand , and is all thine own.
1 chronicles 29 : 17 : i know also , my god , that thou triest the heart , and hast pleasure in uprightness. as for me , in the uprightness of mine heart i have willingly offered all these things : and now have i seen with joy thy people , which are present here , to offer willingly unto thee.
1 chronicles 29 : 18 : o lord god of abraham , isaac , and of israel , our fathers , keep this for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people , and prepare their heart unto thee :
1 chronicles 29 : 19 : and give unto solomon my son a perfect heart , to keep thy commandments , thy testimonies , and thy statutes , and to do all these things , and to build the palace , for the which i have made provision.
1 chronicles 29 : 20 : and david said to all the congregation , now bless the lord your god. and all the congregation blessed the lord god of their fathers , and bowed down their heads , and worshipped the lord , and the king.
1 chronicles 29 : 21 : and they sacrificed sacrifices unto the lord , and offered burnt offerings unto the lord , on the morrow after that day , even a thousand bullocks , a thousand rams , and a thousand lambs , with their drink offerings , and sacrifices in abundance for all israel :
1 chronicles 29 : 22 : and did eat and drink before the lord on that day with great gladness. and they made solomon the son of david king the second time , and anointed him unto the lord to be the chief governor , and zadok to be priest.
1 chronicles 29 : 23 : then solomon sat on the throne of the lord as king instead of david his father , and prospered ; and all israel obeyed him.
1 chronicles 29 : 24 : and all the princes , and the mighty men , and all the sons likewise of king david , submitted themselves unto solomon the king.
1 chronicles 29 : 25 : and the lord magnified solomon exceedingly in the sight of all israel , and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in israel.
1 chronicles 29 : 26 : thus david the son of jesse reigned over all israel.
1 chronicles 29 : 27 : and the time that he reigned over israel was forty years ; seven years reigned he in hebron , and thirty and three years reigned he in jerusalem.
1 chronicles 29 : 28 : and he died in a good old age , full of days , riches , and honour : and solomon his son reigned in his stead.
1 chronicles 29 : 29 : now the acts of david the king , first and last , behold , they are written in the book of samuel the seer , and in the book of nathan the prophet , and in the book of gad the seer ,
1 chronicles 29 : 30 : with all his reign and his might , and the times that went over him , and over israel , and over all the kingdoms of the countries.